STILL POSITIVE: Chippa United defender Kristopher Bergman is confident the side will turn around. Picture: MICHAEL SHEEHAN Implementing what is learnt at training and taking the coach s instructions could get the team a win against Cape Town City this weekend, says Chippa United defender Kristopher Bergman. The Port Elzabeth side play City in a Premier Soccer League fixture at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday (3.30pm). Chippa have been without a win in five of their previous league matches with their most recent result being a 1-0 loss to Bidvest Wits. Bergman believes if the players do as they are told they could end their winless drought. We go into every game with the same type of mindset, the former Cape Town All Stars player said. We want to win every game, it doesn t matter who we play against. Cape Town City have been doing well. They are quite good on the counter, but I mean, it s nothing that we are not used to.&#8221; We are used to teams sitting back and trying to hit us with a counter-attack. We just need to implement what we have been taught at training and follow the coach s instructions on Saturday and we should be fine. He said the international break has helped the team to reflect on their performance so far and to work on their mistakes. Bergman said the team have been working on the finer details of their game plan. The Chilli Boys are eighth on the log with nine points from seven games. They have lost two, drawn three and only won two of their matches. Results have not been going our way lately but I think our performances have not been too bad. We have been unfortunate with some of the games. I am sure that will turn around with the hard work we have been putting in over the international break, Bergman said. We are still positive within the squad and we know what talent we have. I think it s just a matter of time before the results turn for us.&#8221; We have been struggling upfront with scoring goals, so we have been doing a lot of attacking, a lot of build-up and combination play as well. The 27-year-old who has played for Santos, made his debut for the Chilli Boys against Highlands Park recently. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share