TURNING ON THE STYLE: Percy Tau, right, and Themba Zwane celebrate a goal during the Premiership match between Mamelodi Sundowns and Highlands Park yesterday Picture: GALLO IMAGES Mamelodi Sundowns made it four Premiership wins on the spin, beating Highlands Park 5-0 at Loftus Stadium yesterday to further close the gap on those above them on the log. Percy Tau, Anthony Laffor, Sibusiso Vilakazi and Themba Zwane scored in the first half before a Rudi Isaacs s own goal further underlined Highlands recent woes. The Lions of the North have not won in the league since the opening day of the season. Tau was particularly impressive with the Downs attacker scoring and setting up a further three goals in a man-of-the-match display. Despite the convincing win, Sundowns remain in eighth spot. Lindokuhle Mbatha started as he aimed to make an impression, winning an early free kick after turning Hlompho Kekana inside out; the resulting free kick straight at Denis Onyango. Sundowns, though, quickly turned on the style with Tau giving the hosts the lead in the seventh minute. Having dispossessed Augustine Mbara in midfield, the diminutive winger charged at goal and with no Highlands player closing him down, he fired his resulting shot into the back of the net. Laffor made it 2-0 in the 13th minute. Thapelo Morena burst past Franklin Cale on the right flank before cutting the ball back to the Liberian winger who made no mistake from close range. Sundowns continued to pile on the pressure and, after Kekana saw his shot saved by Tapuwa Kapini, Vilakazi made it 3-0 with Tau setting up the former Bidvest Wits skipper in the 35th minute. The Tshwane giants added a fourth two minutes later Tau again the provider as Themba Zwane curled the ball past a helpless Kapini in the Highlands goal. The hosts continued where they left off after the interval Tau causing the Highlands defenders all sorts of problems. Having returned to the club from Witbank Spurs at the end of last season, the 22-year-old has looked a different player and he was again at the root of everything as Isaacs turned the ball into the back of his own net on 53 minutes. Sundowns completely bossed proceedings with Highlands in danger of conceding double-digits. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share