Indonesia refuses to accept blame as Dutch, British demand probe Indonesia refused to take the blame yesterday for the disappearance of at least six British and Dutch World War 2 shipwrecks considered war graves that investigators believe could have been salvaged for scrap. Former colonial ruler the Netherlands has launched a probe into how three Dutch navy ships seemingly vanished from the bed of the Java Sea, while Britain has urged Indonesia to investigate what has happened to three of its vessels. It is believed the military wrecks lost in 1942 during the Battle of the Java Sea were removed by illegal scavengers looking for scrap metal, an effort that could have taken years. More than 900 Dutch and250 Indo-Dutch sailors died during the battle in which the Allied navies suffered a disastrous defeat by the Imperial Japanese Navy. Indonesian authorities have sought to distance themselves from the mystery, saying they could not be expected to protect the sites without assistance. The Dutch government cannot blame the Indonesian government because they never asked us to protect those ships, National Archeological Centre head Bambang Budi Utomo said. As there was no agreement or announcement, it is not our responsibility, he said. Amateur divers in 2002 discovered the long-lost wrecks of three Dutch ships, 60 years after they sank while in action against Japanese forces. But an international expedition that sailed to the wreck site ahead of next year s 75th anniversary of the battle was shocked to discover the wrecks had vanished. Britain expressed its distress at the disappearance of its own warships and asked Indonesia to take appropriate action to protect the sites from further disturbance. But Utomo said Indonesia did not have the resources to maintain a constant patrol over its vast archipelago, a hotspot for other criminal enterprises like illegal fishing and people smuggling. Treasure hunters and scrap collectors are lured to Indonesia s relic-rich seas, experts say, where countless vessels have gone to a watery grave over centuries of trade, colonial conquest and war. Looting is really huge, not only on these World War 2shipwrecks, but also on ancient shipwrecks, Jakar tabased archaeologist, Veronique Degroot, said. The prize find for scavengers targeting the warships would be the huge bronze propellers used to power these juggernauts. While some larger, commercial operations use cranes and platforms to wrench heavy loads from the seabed, smaller ventures keep a low profile as they ship metal to scrapyards along Indonesia s coastline. A spokesman for the Indonesian navy said the missing ships should not have been disturbed as they were war graves. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share