LUKHANYO MZINZI. Picture: Supplied Chippa United chief operations officer Lukhanyo Mzinzi has set the record straight regarding the hosting of some of the club s fixtures in the Buffalo City Municipality region. In a radio interview, Mzinzi said the issue around taking their matches to East London was a very sensitive one but that negotiations were almost complete. Buffalo City Municipality has approved the budget for us to play there, he said. We are busy negotiating with the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality on which games to allocate to Buffalo City. So there is a plan in place. There was also a cry from BCM to host one of the big matches, so we are looking into that as Chippa United.&#8221; We are still finalising some issues with the NMB, who are not against us taking some of our home games to East London.&#8221; &#8220;This is a matter that we will finalise very soon. Our promise to the residents of BCM is that they will get to watch five Chippa United PSL fixtures in their back yard. Mzinzi said there were still many issues that needed to be looked at regarding taking games to East London. One of the issues was fixing the Sisa Dukashe Stadium to conform with PSL standards. The news has taken Safa Buffalo City president Prince Sibam by surprise. According to the Herald s sister publication, the Daily Dispatch, Sibam has concerns that the PSL fixtures might clash with Mdantsane amateur clubs who use the stadium. Mzinzi said a press conference would be called soon to clarify all the details. The issue of the Buffalo City Stadium . . . when Professor Ronnie Schloss went to evaluate the pitch last time, he said it was in a playable condition but there were still minor things that needed to be fixed.&#8221; Everyone is aware that we are sharing that stadium with rugby and some music events at times.&#8221; That is why we are in the process of fixing the Sisa Dukashe Stadium to the level of the PSL so that it becomes another option for us when needed, he said. The first match that we are looking at playing in Buffalo City is on December 17 versus Highlands Park.&#8221; We have always enjoyed the support of our East London fans. We also have two high-profile matches we have lined up for early next year&#8221; &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share