Hanlie Young, seen conducting the Eastern Cape Junior Children s Choir, will perform at Christmas in the Home Picture: Fredlin Adriaan One of Nelson Mandela Bay s festive season staples, Christmas in the Home, returns to The Boardwalk Convention Centre on December 1 with a new line-up of stalls, entertainment and educational talks. Last year, the four-day event attracted over 10 000 market-goers and this year it will have 150 stalls selling handmade gifts and crafts. Coordinator Elsje Smuts of Trueblue Communication and Events said the food section would be larger this year. We now have a dedicated food court area with lots of seating so people can take a break and refuel before carrying on with some serious Christmas shopping, said Smuts. Adding to the festive atmosphere will be a daily line-up of choirs and live music. For us, Christmas in the Home is all about showcasing the Bay s best creative talent, whether it be in the form of handmade goods, artisanal food or musical abilities, she said. Music, demos, cake and beer The Eastern Cape Junior Children s Choir takes to the stage on the opening day, followed by the Summerwood Primary Wind Band on the Friday and local muso Charl Francis later that evening. On the Saturday, it is the turn of Charlo Primary School and Arbitrio Male Choir, while Lilian Zeelie and Hanlie Young bring proceedings to a melodious close on the Sunday. Another highlight of this year s event will be a series of festive-themed educational talks by experts in their various fields, said Smuts. First up, we have our gardening expert Kay, better known as Call Kay, who will share her thoughts on Christmas gardening and what looks best this time of year in the Eastern Cape. We are also happy to have Sue Hoffman, who will demonstrate her ideas for unique Christmas table d cor using recycled materials and indigenous flowers and plants. Then it is the turn of Koekedoor television bake-off contestant Wilandi Esterhuysen, who will show how to make easy holiday snacks and a Sweetie Pie with a Christmas touch. Rounding out the festivities will be Jonathan Roche of Benn Koppen, who will share his expertise on craft beer as a seasonal tipple. Smuts also encouraged market-goers to visit and support the sponsored stands hosted by Isithembiso Babies Home and Northwood Children s Hospice. These organisations do incredibly important work among the children of our city, so it s important to give back and make their Christmas a little more cheerful. Christmas in the Home opens at 9am daily and will trade until 6pm on the Thursday and Saturday, till 8pm on the Friday and until 2pm on the Sunday. Entry costs R20 per person, free for children younger than 12 years. For more information, contact Elsje on 082 873 7663 or elsje@truebluecommunication.co.za, or find Christmas in the Home on Facebook. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share