University of Witwatersrand Fees Must Fall leader Mcebo Dlamini said his spirit has not been dented by his unlawful detention over the past weeks. We are very much relieved that justice has been served and I want to believe that this case will set a precedent for other student leaders Dlamini said after being granted bail of R2000 on Wednesday. He was arrested on October 15 at his Wits residence on charges of public violence theft malicious damage to property and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Our spirit is very high as it was high before I went to prison. I have been in detention for almost 30 days and nothing has changed. I am still the same person as I was said Dlamini standing on top of a Volkswagen Polo. Asked earlier about conditions in jail Dlamini was cagey: Well prison is prison and what happens inside must not be discussed outside. He was welcomed by hundreds of students chanting struggle songs outside the Palm Ridge Magistrates Court. They barricaded the main road leading to the entrance of the court. The appellant is fixed with R2000 bail and the conditions are that he is ordered to desist from unlawfully disrupting the academic activities of Wits said Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng. He is entitled to participate in lawful activities on the campus not interfere with the charges against him and is prohibited from communicating with witnesses. He will appear in court again on 15 November. On Tuesday Dlamini s legal representatives advocates Dali Mpofu and Tembeka Ngcukaitobi argued that Dlamini s arrest and prosecution was as a result of a political conspiracy. They based that argument on a meeting involving National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams that took place at the African National Congress headquarters Luthuli House on 10 October. Dlamini was denied bail after a three-day hearing in the Johannesburg Magistrates nine days after that meeting. TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share