FOOT FIGHT: Bongani Zungu, left, battles Katlego Mashego for the ball during Mamelodi Sundowns Media Day. Picture: Backpage pix The signing of veteran striker Katlego Mashego by Chippa United is a desperate attempt to solve their scoring problem. However, the 34-year-old former Bafana Bafana player thinks otherwise. I m not the answer to anything. I am here to do my job and people know what that is. I am a striker. I am not here to answer any problems or anything else. Despite a wealth of experience, the Port Elizabeth side have been struggling to find the back of the net in their last five matches since bagging four goals in the 4-1 win against Baroka in a league fixture. The only goal they have scored during that period was against Platinum Stars, in their 1-1 draw recently. That was followed by a 1-0 defeat away to Bidvest Wits. Former Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates player Mashego signed a 20-month deal with the Chilli Boys last week. Mahoota , as he is known, made his Chippa debut against Wits, and said he enjoyed the game, despite the loss. Even though we lost, we played well, he said. We are still a young team. We have young players and we need to work hard, but thankfully we have an international break now.&#8221; We will use the time to fix a lot of stuff. We need to play well for Chippa because this team has the potential to do well and to finish better than last season.&#8221; We always want to improve. We have the chance during the international break to fix whatever problems we have and come back strong. Mashego said last season was the worst in his soccer career and he was hoping to do better this time and make his comeback felt. Asked what Chilli Boys supporters could expect from him, he said: It s not about me. I can t be telling people they can expect this and that, because I do not play for myself and I do not play alone.&#8221; We are a team that want to achieve. We are here to compete and we want to play well, achieve things that we never thought we could achieve.&#8221; This club has ambition and we want to try by all means to fulfil our ambitions. Chippa s next league game is on November 19, against Cape Town City at the Buffalo City Stadium in East London. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share