How dare Allister Coetzee blame the Springbok players for not winning, for not committing themselves to the cause? These poor guys had no game plan to follow. We had Pieter-Steph du Toit as an out-of-his-depth flank (not his fault), Eben Etzebeth, Lood de Jager, and Warren Whiteley as line out jumpers did we once contest any of England s 15 line outs? Nope. Huh? I could go into great detail about a defensive strategy, but it would be pointless. Our defence was at sea in the England game. How on earth do you allow an average scrumhalf, Ben Youngs, to score two tries by dummying the defence? The flanker, Du Toit, was dummied twice eish! At international level. Where was Rudy two step Paige on the defence fringes? It is not the player s fault that they did not know where to be in the defensive line, this is the coach s fault. I could go on and on about our lack of game planning, but I won t. What I will say is this: I was one of the few who believed that Coetzee was the correct choice as Springbok coach. I believed with him having been part of Jake White s four-year project culminating in us winning the 2007 World Cup, Coetzee would know how to build and manage a squad to success in 2019. I was wrong. Coetzee has wasted a year of using players who are beyond their sell-by date and of having a captain who told him from day one that he was retiring at the end of the year, by not using form players and by not blooding combinations to take us through to 2019. Had Coetzee said to us, We have lost many players to retirement, we are building a new team and will lose many matches along the way , we would have been ultra-patient. But to see an improvement by winning six attacking line outs in bad conditions against England is mindless. Scotland has improved, they held Australia to a one-point win. Ireland beat the All Blacks! Wales improved from losing a disastrous match to Australia to beating Argentina. We have gone backwards at a helluva rate. Normally one would say that we cannot dump the coach and we must give him time. This time though, I am calling for the coach to be dumped, along with his out-of-depth assistants, and to bring in the coach who took the Lions to a Super 18 final and bring in the coach who took the Cheetahs on an unbeaten run in this year s Currie Cup. They have proved over the last three years that they can build winning squads. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share