WAY AHEAD: Chippa United coach Dan Malesela has big ambitions for the future of the club.Picture: GALLO IMAGES The international break came as a blessing for Chippa United, allowing them to experiment with different formations and combinations, says coach Dan Malesela. The Chilli Boys play Cape Town City in a Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tomorrow (3.30pm). Malesela will be hoping his reshuffle will help end the club s winless drought. The Port Elizabeth side have won only one match of their last four, their most recent result a 1-0 loss to Bidvest Wits. The international break came as a blessing for us because there is a lot that we worked on, he said. We tried different combinations. We also tried different personnel in different positions. So, I think [the break] worked well for us. Chippa are eighth on the log with nine points from seven matches, a position Malesela regards as not bad. I don t think eighth place on the log is a bad position to be in, Malesela said. I think what triggered this whole thing is how we started and expectations were very high. It also allowed other clubs to see: This is what you will be facing. I think the results were good enough to have us refocused and we know what to expect from opponents. Chippa and The Citizens will be meeting for the first time in the PSL. Although many might be fooled by the change from Mpumalanga Black Aces to Cape Town City and regard the team as being new to the league, Malesela thinks otherwise. There is nothing new in football so long as you have the right personnel, the former Orlando Pirates skipper said. I think if you have players willing to take instructions and to work hard, you cannot even begin to say a club is new.&#8221; It s like clubs that are promoted from the lower divisions you underestimate them at you peril. Tickets for the game are available at Ticketpro outlets for R40 adults and R20 for children . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share