Port Elizabeth bride Amber Pearson and Wayne Myburgh got hitched in Hankey last month at the bride s favourite place: home. Pearson said she enjoyed the beautiful all-white wedding day, there were no posed photographs. No bridesmaids, groomsmen, speeches or first dances. Simple and understated was the order of the day. The ceremony was held under the old oak tree in the Manor House Garden at the Meadows farm in the Gamtoos Valley and now the Pearson family plan to hold more rustic weddings in an English country garden style. Drinks and canap s were served at The Milk House; a farmstyle bar on the property before lunch was served under the bottle brush tree in the guest house garden. Adorned with white flowers and gold Bottega champagne bottles, Amber said the long table was a feast for all the senses. Guests wined and dined until late afternoon and then we cut the wedding cake which had an added surprise. The top tier of the 4-tiered cake was a gender reveal a big blue slice revealing that a little baby boy will be joining our family in March 2017. Congratulatory hugs were shared amongst tears of joy. When the sun set, the after-party started, more champagne was popped and the celebrations continued well into the early hours. It was a simply dreamy day! The family hopes that Amber s wedding will be the first of many to be celebrated at the Meadows Farm. It was established in 1889, and was the biggest jersey cow dairy farm in the Eastern Cape. The old dairy and all the other buildings still remain and have since been refurbished to bring the farm back to life and glory. Now a working citrus farm, The Meadows consists of a five-bedroom guesthouse, a farm style bar and a manor house garden that can accommodate up to 100 guests. A 40 minute drive from Port Elizabeth, and a stone s throw away from St Francis Bay, the Pearsons see The Meadows as a getaway for the whole family and also a venue for weddings, end-of-year functions, birthdays and garden celebrations. The Meadows is hosting an open day on Saturday, December 3 between noon and 4pm. Send an e-mail to themillkhouseteam@gmail.com to book The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 Amber and Wayne are now entered into The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 and The Herald invites you to send in your favourite wedding photograph if you are getting married this year. Send one photograph to: fembride@timesmedia.co.za with The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 in the subject field. Include the following information: bride and groom s first and second names (including the bride s maiden name), home address, day-time contact phone numbers, date and place of wedding, and name of photographer. Family details are optional but if you have a special memory of your engagement or wedding, please do share this also. The Herald will carry a selection of entrants photographs as and when space permits in print, but all qualifying photographs will be posted to The Herald website, www.heraldlive.co.za. A selection are also posted to the Lafemme Herald Facebook page and La Femme Pinterest boards. Send only one photo showing faces of bride and groom clearly, preferably a colour photograph which may be in print or digital format. Prints are not returned. Please do not send files larger than 1Mb as they will be rejected. Entrants must marry any time between January 1 to December 31 2016, and live in The Herald circulation area. There is no age limit and it may be a second marriage. Entries are open until early next year. Further information: The Herald marketing coordinator Nazma Smith, (041)504-7184, e-mail: fembride@timesmedia.co.za. Entries close early next year, and are free but please include: bride and groom s first and second names (including maiden surname), home address, day time contact phone numbers, date and venue of wedding, and name of photographer. Further information: The Herald marketing coordinator Nazma Smith, (041) 504-7184, e-mail: fembride@timesmedia.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share