They came, they saw, they shopped and they shoved. And then shoved some more. Black Friday was more of a black and-blue day for many as throngs of bargain hunters in Nelson Mandela Bay and the rest of the country stampeded into malls and retail centres, pushing and elbowing their way to their low-price targets. Paramedics even had to treat a woman for a shoulder injury in the chaos at Durban s Pavilion Shopping Centre, and shoppers were not the only casualties of the frenzy e-commerce websites also crashed under the pressure. But the #BlackFriday brigade who queued from early yesterday also had mixed reactions to one of the most anticipated sales of the year toilet paper prices got a big thumbs up but for others it all seemed like a gimmick. A relatively new concept in South Africa, Black Friday refers to the day following Thanksgiving Day in the US, traditionally seen as the start of the Christmas shopping season. In Port Elizabeth, the parking lots at Metlife Mall Shopping Centre and Makro were already filling up by 7am. Makro staff were seen leaving the Metlife Checkers with trolley-loads of groceries before they reported for duty across the road, where a long queue was already forming outside the store. Other customers leaving Checkers were seen with loads of soft drinks, milk and toilet paper. At Makro, Bethelsdorp husband and wife Allan and Charneil Maggott joined the queue at about 7.15am. Charneil, who is on maternity leave, and Allan, whose shift started at 2pm, said they hoped to go home with at least three big-ticket items. We are here for some entertainment stuff, the Xbox One, Allan said. Charneil said: And the Samsung 13kg washing machine and the Defy oven and top. We hope we get it. While the queues grew steadily, others chose to bide their time in their cars, out of the heat. At Greenacres Shopping Centre, Subeida and Farouk Hassen of Gelvandale were among the first shoppers at 5am. I was so excited I woke up at something to four, then I got up and finished my prayer. I was so eager to go. It was like the first day of school, Subeida said. By 6.30am an orderly queue at the Shoprite and OK Furniture entrance already snaked almost to Ring Road. Rodney and Eva Gouza said they had travelled from Addo to snap up the specials. The madness continued at the centre s Checkers outlet, with shoppers racing to be first in line while family members gathered the goods and others waited patiently, targeting furniture shops, appliances and gadgets. But disappointed relatives Ncumisa Saki and Yolanda James, of Motherwell, said the day had been a complete waste of time and taxi fare. This is quite senseless, Saki said. The lines are too long and this is just a tactic to spend more money. The prices are not even that different this is all marketing. Others who had hoped to take advantage of liquor specials were disappointed to find that a Shoprite price catalogue making the rounds was in fact a hoax. Senobia van Rooyen of Despatch, who went to Baywest Mall s Checkers, said she had been there since 7am and was overwhelmed. It s actually just too much for me, she said. My sister is doing the shopping while I wait here. I didn t expect it to be this crazy. The only thing that s worth it is the toilet paper. Zanele Dlanjwa, of Motherwell, said she had been at Baywest since 6.30am and I want it in bold letters that it s not worth it . Black Friday is a scam. I m very disappointed. Nothing is really that much cheaper, she said. I m not sure if I will come again next year. Abongile Vanaqa, of Timothy Valley, was more upbeat. I didn t like the crowd and the queues but it was worth it. The toilet paper was very cheap so we bought a lot of it. Baywest was definitely the best option because I saw pictures of other malls. Greenacres looked deur mekaar [muddled], she said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share