Court s decision to hold off on prosecuting Rocklands man until ConCourt verdict expected to lead to flood of similar applications A weed-smoking woodcutter has become the first person in the Eastern Cape to obtain a stay of prosecution pending the outcome of a constitutional challenge by a husband and wife widely known as the dagga couple . The ruling by the Port Elizabeth High Court that the National Directorate of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) hold back on prosecuting Bryan Jones has now opened the floodgates for other dagga users to bring similar applications. Jones, 38, of Rocklands, was arrested in March last year on charges of possession and cultivation of dagga. In June this year, he approached the high court, asking that the criminal case in the Humansdorp Magistrate s Court be set aside pending the outcome of proceedings and all possible appeals instituted by Krugersdorp couple Julian Stobbs and Myrtle Clarke. Jones s application against the Minister of Justice, the NDPP and a Humansdorp magistrate was unopposed. Stobbs and Clarke are challenging the provisions of the Drugs and Drug Trafficking Act in an attempt to have the outlawed plant legalised. Jones s attorney, Chris Morgan, confirmed yesterday that the ruling last month was the first of its kind for the Eastern Cape. And now other Nelson Mandela Bay residents facing similar charges are hoping to ride on Jones s coat-tails. With regards to other cases, it is still to be seen what will be done, Morgan said. But we can expect a flood of similar applications or even a class action. Port Elizabeth attorney Dean Murray said that in light of the high court decision he would also bring an application to have proceedings against one of his clients stayed on the same basis. My client s trial [for possession and cultivation of dagga] is set down for November, he said. I plan to approach the state before then. For the full story read The Herald, or get the complete newspaper, including comics, classifieds, crosswords and back editions in our e-Edition. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share