Mo and Phindi are cast members of M-Net s Power Couple SA, Radio Contributors and co-authors of the book Love Isn t For Cowards &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Who hasn t had the opportunity to defile the marriage bed? Every day we are faced with that excitingly naughty feeling that whispers in our ears, taste it just one time, your partner won t know anyway; everybody else does it . And if you decide to give in to the urge, you may soon be so hooked maybe not to the person you did it with per se but to the very act of cheating that it s become part of your lifestyle. Then you start becoming strange and embrace skewed thoughts that everyone does it . Before you know it, you re looking for anything to justify the lustful behaviour in order to make yourself feel better even thoughts of polygamy. Fact is, even the most trusted person is constantly presented with varying opportunities to cheat on a regular basis. And it can happen that you fall. It has happened to many. In fact, it s happening as you read this. This does not imply that people shouldn t do their best to resist the temptation to cheat, but merely recognising that even the best among us, the most resolute given the right circumstances are susceptible to cheating and can slip at any point. You only have one official partner We always advise couples that you only have one official partner. If you love them right, one is all you need, despite the seeming obviousness of it, and more often than not, infidelity isn t about sex. Cheat-proofing your relationship isn t as simple as constantly upping the sex game. Your partner can cheat on you in spite of the great sex life you have. Similarly, being cheated on isn t necessarily a sign that there s something wrong with you or the relationship. There are many people who consider themselves happily monogamous that who end up crossing a line they never imagined they d cross. We ve heard all kinds of reasons for cheating before like the desire for novelty, or to recapture the spark and excitement that first defined their relationship when it began. Some people strike up affairs because they want to feel wanted, while others do it in protest against certain treatment they get from with their official partners. For others, it s about the rush of doing something forbidden, the thrill of risk and being caught. For others still, it s about boredom and wanting to shake things up. Some have affairs because they re rebelling against a belief about themselves or the values they grew up with, while others may be reacting to the pain of previous relationships. Some are trying to recapture a lost sense of self while others are making up for opportunities they believe they ve missed. Other times it s a matter of one partner simply panicking and lashing out. For some people, cheating on their partner is a way of punishing them or getting revenge for a fight. Even if the other partner never learns about the affair, that secret knowledge serves as a sort of reprisal, a trump card that can be dealt at any time. Then there are those who use affairs to get out of relationships that were otherwise dead or dying. We believe there can never exist any intelligent reason why anyone cheats. People cheat because of lust People cheat because of lust. Notwithstanding many affairs that happen because of an emotional connection and sometimes end there, people cheat because they simply can. We don t believe there can be any problem in your relationship that can make you cheat on your partner. It s one of the worst forms of disrespect for your partner. Furthermore, cheating can never be the fault of the faithful partner in the relationship. When you cheat, you on your own voluntarily make that choice. Avoiding an opportunity to cheat on your partner means harnessing your power to resist temptation. This you do sometimes by literally running away from potentially compromising environment. The reason alcoholics avoid bars and those on weight-loss programmes avoid bakeries is because they know that being confronted with the source of their temptation only increases the pressure on their limited resolve. Avoid inappropriate conversations Furthermore, cultivating a strong friendship with your partner is another way of avoiding cheating. You also want to avoid inappropriate conversations by not giving mixed signals. As much as possible, never allow yourself to have a special friendship with the opposite sex from work or church to whom you turn for advice and support. This is especially so if the special friend is unknown to your partner or says things they wouldn t be able to comfortably say in front of your partner. Lastly, many people fall for the trap of relaxing after they ve found each other, and cease chasing or pursuing each other. When you eat healthily, exercise and look your best, you maintain your attraction to your partner. Of course, this does not mean you must squander your household budget on shopping sprees. But it does mean you shouldn t lose the urge to maintain your partner s attraction to you. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share