Apart from the late Nelson Mandela US president-elect Donald Trump has not had many nice things to say about Africa. South Africa in particular the populist demagogue has said is crime-ridden and one of its high-profile judges is a moron . Here is a selection of Trump s opinions: On Madiba When the former statesman died in 2013 Trump took to Instagram to say the world icon was a special man and will be missed. Nelson Mandela and myself had a wonderful relationship&#8211;he was a special man and will be missed. A photo posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Dec 5, 2013 at 2:16pm PST On South Africa Despite his fondness for the late president Trump had this to say about SA: I really like Nelson Mandela but South Africa is a crime ridden mess that is just waiting to explode-not a good situation for the people! and As I have long been saying South Africa is a total and very dangerous mess. Just watch the evening news (when not talking weather). On Judge Thokozile Masipa During Paralympian Oscar Pistorius trial for shooting his model girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp Trump was clearly not impressed with Pretoria High Court Judge Thokozile Masipa acquitting him of the more serious murder charge. The judge in the Oscar Pistorious case is a total moron. She said he didn t act like a killer. This is another O.J. disaster! The judge in the Oscar Pistorious case is a total moron. She said he didn&#39;t act like a killer. This is another O.J. disaster! &mdash; Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2014 On Africa Following former President Barack Obama s pledge of $7-billion to support the building of reliable electric power grids in sub-Saharan Africa Trump took to Twitter and said: Every penny of the $7 billion going to Africa as per Obama will be stolen-corruption is rampant! On African politicians Trump said African leaders and those in the opposition parties are greedy. Look at African countries like Nigeria or Kenya for instance those people are stealing from their government and go to invest the money in foreign countries. From the government to the opposition they only qualify to be used as a case study whenever bad examples are required. Meanwhile President Jacob Zuma has on behalf of the government and people of South Africa congratulated USA President-elect Donald Trump on his victory. TMG Digital &nbsp; &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share