Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan The friendly suburb of Charlo is a favourite for young families and it is easy to see why. Flanked by Springfield, Lorraine, Overbaakens and Walmer, it is close to a number of schools, shops, restaurants and medical facilities a big drawcard for people with busy lifestyles. The suburb gets its name from the late Charles Lovemore, on whose farm it was developed. The name was derived from the first four letters of his name and the first two letters of his surname. This section of Port Elizabeth is characterised by plenty of greenery and large gardens, ideal for families with children and pets. Another drawcard for parents of young children is Kidz Play Park at Windsor, a popular play area on Circular Drive, Charlo. The park s attractions include a play ambulance, shipwreck, aeroplane, truck and fire engine. There is also a maze and kitted-out kiddies Formula 1 track, as well as nets, swings, slides, ramps and more, all within the safe confines of a tea garden. The suburb also has a school named after it, further supporting the child-friendly aspect of Charlo. Charlo Primary School was founded in 1974 with an initial enrolment of 21 children. Today it has more than 500 pupils. Charlo is less than 10km from the airport and residents don t have to look further than the Figtree Complex for their essentials. From fruit and vegetable purchases, grocery shopping and gift shopping, to a bite to eat or a gym session, the centre has something for everyone. With Walmer Park Shopping Centre less than 5km away, and other malls like Moffett on Main, 17th Quarter, King s Court and Moffett Retail Park a quick drive away, shopping options are endless. Buying in Charlo The monthly bond repayment to purchase a typical property in Charlo, namely a three-bedroom house with the median asking price of R1,13m, is R11,282 per month over 20 years at prime of 10,5% with no deposit. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share