The production team, from left, Gwen Davis, Brenda Ower, Marlene Pieterse, Siobhan Day and Wayne Hughes Picture: Chris Gertsch After a lengthy auditions process, a strong lineup of vibrant young performers has been selected to go into the first phase of rehearsals for the popular Clover Showtime Awards Young Talent Development 2017 revue, A Grand Night for Singing. The annual revue will be staged at the Little Theatre in January. Presented for the second time in collaboration with the PE Musical and Dramatic Society (Pemads), the production will salute the twin Richard Rodgers songbooks, with lyricists Lorenz Larry Hart and Oscar Hammerstein II, with several surprises thrown in along with the song, dance and comedy. Shannon Hubbard, who impressed in last year s revue, The Pleasure of Your Company, returns to lead the female core cast . New female Showtimers Abigail Ranwell, Amber April, Isabella Rosochacki, Kayla Mathiesen, Kelly-Lee Jeffrey, Kyrah Lloyd and Kyla Smit will join her. James van der Merwe is also back from last time, joined by newcomers Arthur Daniels and Sean Cady. The dancers will be Britney Shaw, Gia Smith, Ma-Bell Muller (also making a Showtime return), Rachel Parker, Kayla Auld and Skye Phillips. Also back from two years ago will be a group of 10 singing boys and girls from Charlo Primary School: Lea Carelse, Anneke Pienaar, Kaylin Roberts, Len Scheepers, Dan Van Dyk, Meagan Vogel, Stefan Basson, Jared Doubell, Dillon Roberts and Sam Vos. Marlene Pieterse will direct the show, which is once more devised and written by Bob Eveleigh, former Arts Editor of The Herald and Weekend Post. Wayne Hughes is musical and vocal director, while Siobhan Day makes her debut as a Showtime choreographer. She won many Clover Showtime Junior Awards for her dance and movement staging in various high and primary School productions. Rocky Mann and Lance Bright will again be the technical consultants. A Grand Night for Singing will run from January 23 to 28, including the Junior and Senior Clover Showtime Awards nights on January 24 and 27 respectively. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share