The Herald Continental Cycle Tour Picture: Supplied The 32nd edition of The Herald Cycle Tour gained more traction yesterday when it was announced that Continental Tyre South Africa (CTSA) has come on board as the new co-naming sponsor. In a major new development for next year, The Herald s longstanding partner, Volkswagen Group South Africa (VWSA), will pass the baton to Continental Tyre. We re excited to welcome Continental SA as the new co-naming partner for next year and beyond, The Herald chief marketing officer Justin Peel said yesterday. Continental shares the passion and pride we have for Nelson Mandela Bay and we truly look forward to working closely with its team to continue delivering a world-class festival of cycling. Continental Tyre SA marketing manager Niel Langner said the company was delighted to be a part of the event, having signed a three-year deal from next year to 2019. We hope to grow this fantastic event even further, while building on our strong association with the cycling community, Langner said. The Herald Continental Cycle Tour is one of South Africa s most popular cycling events, and provides the ideal showcase for our cutting edge German technologies in both passenger car tyres and bicycle tyres, which are recognised as industry leaders in their respective segments. Peel thanked Volkswagen Group SA for its contribution over more than a decade. We re extremely grateful for Volkswagen Group South Africa s amazing 12-year commitment to Nelson Mandela Bay s flagship cycling event, he said. It is not often that an event is able to partner with a company that understands and shares the vision of showcasing Nelson Mandela Bay in its true glory. This mutual understanding has allowed us to grow the event to where it is today and we are proud to showcase it as one of South Africa s premier cycling events. VWSA general manager: group communications Matt Gennrich said: During our time being co-title sponsor of the event, we believe it has grown in stature and we are proud that Volkswagen was able to play a key role in placing this cycling event on an even footing with some of the country s biggest events. It remains one of the highlights on PE s annual sporting calendar, and we wish The Herald, the organisers and the new sponsors well for the future. The event s scenic mountain bike races will take place on February 19 from the Addo Polo Club. The races include the 500m Powerade Toddlers Dash, 5km Powerade Kiddies Challenge, 30km Powerade Leisure Challenge, 60km Adventure and the formidable 80km Extreme race. The popular road races will take place on February 25 and 26 at the new Pollok Beach race village. On February 25, the children can enjoy the 500m Toddlers Dash and the 2km Powerade Kiddies Ride. The 55km Pursuit and flagship 106km Classic take place the following day. Team Telkom s Nolan Hoffman plans to defend his 106km title next year and will be aiming for his fourth win in a row and sixth overall. I ll definitely be making a trip down to Port Elizabeth, Hoffman said. The Herald Cycle Tour has always been a challenging race for me and one of my favourites to compete in. I enjoy racing along the coastline, and the scenery does not disappoint. Race entries are now open online and close at midnight on January 27. No late entries will be accepted online or at race-pack collection. Entrants must collect their own race packs and sign on registration to complete their entry. To register online, go to www.heraldcycletour.co.za. Queries can be directed to our race office at (041) 504-7911, or by e-mail at heraldcycletour@timesmedia.co.za Follow us on Facebook (heraldcycletour) and Twitter (@heraldcycletour) for updates, news and reviews of all your cycling favourites. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share