OLD MESSAGE: A section of the dated pamphlet on water-saving tips A blunder by a municipal service provider to distribute water saving pamphlets has brought former Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Zanoxolo Wayile temporarily back into the mayoral chair. Dated pamphlets which include a plea by Wayile to Bay residents to save water were accidentally distributed after an employee of the service provider collected material from its offices without checking the contents. A reporter from The Herald was stopped in Westbourne Road, Central, yesterday by one of the service provider s water ambassadors distributing the pamphlets. But the pamphlets the ambassador was handing out referred to the 2010 drought when the metro was declared a disaster area. Wayile was appointed mayor in November 2009, was re-elected in 2011 and served until March 2013. Mayoral spokesman Sibongile Dimbaza said the city had to recall the pamphlets. We have a dedicated service provider that prints the material and distributes it to our residents, Dimbaza said. The explanation we got from him was that one of the water ambassadors came into the office and took a stack of pamphlets without checking the content. These were then distributed to the public. We have told him to recall all the pamphlets and send out the right ones, Dimbaza said. Those distributed do not talk to the message we want to give to the public. We expect a level of service from him [the service provider] obviously this is unacceptable. Dimbaza was unable to give the name of the service provider when asked. Present mayor Athol Trollip has been conducting a media campaign since last week urging residents to reduce water usage and stop wastage. The metro is under pressure to save water after the national government directed the city to restrict usage or face water cuts. Dimbaza said the municipality had urged the service provider to issue the correct pamphlets with Trollip s message as soon as possible. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share