SIMPLY SPARKLING: Owners Charles and Carol Jackson in their Havilah Designer Jewellers office in 6th Avenue, Walmer, after recently launching their new range of jewellery Pretty Silver Picture: BAZIL RAUBACH Pretty Silver marks 20 years in business for jewellers Port Elizabeth s Havilah Designer Jewellers has, after building up its business for 20 years, launched its very own designer collection called Pretty Silver. Goldsmith Charles Jackson, 59, and wife Carol, 57, established the business in 1996 from the back room of their family home, specialising in designing and manufacturing quality custom-made platinum, palladium, gold and silver pieces. Havilah Designer Jewellers is now based in Walmer. Carol said since 2009 Havilah had carried a range of international jewellery brands such as Pandora, Engelsrufer from Germany and Nomination from Italy, among others. The Pretty Silver idea came up after they had repeatedly asked themselves why not a homegrown South African brand? We knew we had the skills and talent and have been building on that and launched [the new range] four weeks ago . . . and it s going amazingly, Carol said. There s definitely a market for that because silver jewellery is very trendy at the moment, especially when it comes to engagement rings. I don t remember the last time we made a yellow-gold ring. People are into the white metals, especially the younger crowd, she added. Carol said the beauty of Pretty Silver, was that it was sterling silver complete with chains, no add-ons and each one has symbolism and meanings . We wanted to create a brand that was affordable, quality jewellery something different, desirable and adding to that the symbolism which creates that special touch that reaches everyone s level, Carol said. Carol describes her husband, who boasts a 40-year career in jewellery creation, as a born goldsmith who as a schoolboy used to make copper jewellery and sell it at record bars. After matriculating, he signed on with a company in Johannesburg as an apprentice jeweller before moving to Port Elizabeth 35 years ago. When we moved here, Charlie worked as a goldsmith for Francarlo Designer Goldsmith for 14 years, before finally going into this business. At that time our children were leaving school, Carol added. We were at a place where the kids were choosing careers and Brad, our son, mentioned he wanted to be a jeweller because he was artistic. So we decided if he wanted to become a jeweller then we should open our own business and his dad could train him, she said. The couple s three children, Bradley, 35, Danielle, 33, and Sheyna, 28, have all worked in the family business with Sheyna still the last of the kids staying behind to assist. Havilah has three goldsmiths, with a total of eight employees in the business. Carol said they pride themselves on providing quality jewellery for their customers, who kept coming back and referring others to them. We re not in a shopping centre, there s not a lot of high traffic volume around. People come to us because they want to come to us, Carol said. Charles said people always asked him what it was like working with his wife for so long, but said they hardly bumped into each other at the office. I m in the workshop all the time, Carol does the administration and I m in charge of manufacturing, so it s not really a problem. We come into work and that s that. But when we walk out of here we shut off, and carry on with our home life, Charles said. If you buy from us, you re supporting South Africans who then plough back in to the community and if demand increases production increases, which in turn creates more jobs for people, Charlie said. Carol said that their success was testament to their reputation for creating exquisitely beautiful jewellery that was designed to customers personal tastes and style and then handcrafted to perfection. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share