Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Weekend Post Neighbourhood puts the spotlight on Westering today. And, if you are looking for a residential area that maintains a tranquil feeling despite its proximity to all modern conveniences, Westering is right up your alley. Situated along Cape Road, past the main business areas and William Moffett Expressway, you would expect a lot of hustle and bustle, but this is not the case. Instead, you find a quiet, primarily residential suburb, with schools and some convenience stores scattered around. It is a place generations of families call home. Although Westering is essentially quietly nestled away, it is still close to major shopping complexes, entertainment facilities and eateries. The commute to the industrial areas of the city is fairly easy as the suburb is connected via a network of nearby highways. Routes also lead to the beach making Westering fairly central, convenient and an ideal place for visitors to base themselves. Homes range from large family homes to quaint townhouses Westering is well known for its schools, especially Westering Primary School. Originally known as Linton Grange Primary, Westering Primary was established in 1960 to serve residents of the Western suburbs in Port Elizabeth. It was a dual-medium school and, as the Western suburbs expanded, the school s governing body realised they needed more space. The English-medium pupils were then moved to new buildings and what we now know as Westering Primary School opened its doors in January 1970. This also led to the establishment of Westering High School just down the road in the same year. According to residents, the public pool is a big drawcard even for those who have pools in their own backyards. With a baby pool to cater for the little ones, soccer poles, a basketball court, skate ramp and braai facilities, the James Kleynhans Swimming Pool is a big summer attraction. For those not so keen on the water, there are multiple play parks for kids in the area. Buying in Westering The monthly bond repayment to purchase a typical property in Westering, namely a three-bedroom house with the median asking price of R998,000, is R9,964 per month over 20 years at prime of 10,5% with no deposit. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share