A stony silence turned to sheer horror early yesterday for Hillary Clinton s supporters at what was meant to be her presidential victory party as it became painfully clear she would not close the gap with Donald Trump. One by one, states turned Republican red on the interactive map of the country. One by one, dejected Clinton fans left in tears without even seeing their beloved candidate. Jeannette Bar basch, a fifty something Clinton backer leaving the cavernous Javits Centre in Manhattan, said: It s a nightmare. The centre had been decked out in US flags for Clinton s expected win. We re totally distraught we never thought this could happen. New York consultant Brian Smith, 40, said he simply could not process what had happened. It s been too overwhelming to see things shift in a day, in an hour, in a minute, he lamented. Indeed, no one was expecting such a violent slap in the face. Some were saying it would be close, but no one imagined the night would turn into a political funeral for the 69-year-old former first lady, senator and secretary of state. Faces once bright with the hope of seeing America s first woman president elected started growing longer and longer at about 9pm on Tuesday, when the results appeared to be leaning Trump s way. Retired rail worker Joan Divenuti, who had come from Massachusetts, said: Not great. Florida was always a problem, she said, shaking her head. It was not long before the US television networks called the Sunshine State for Trump. The New York Times only had bad news for them, with its forecast for Trump s chances of winning rising as the night wore on from 53% to 70% to 87% . . . to 95%. Heads were shaking in front of the giant screens beaming the results to the crowd, and the voices of reporters echoed in the huge hall. Clinton decided to remain at her hotel, calling Trump to concede. Filmmaker Celia Rowlson-Hall 32,said: We are disgusted, embarrassed, we are sorry on behalf of our country that the white male uneducated vote has spoken today. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share