Thembinkosi Lorch of Chippa United gave notice of his talent in the Absa Premiership match between Chippa United and Free State Stars at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium Picture: GALLO IMAGES Thembinkosi Lorch scored 15 minutes from time to secure a point for Chippa United as they played to a 1-1 draw against Maritzburg United in an Absa Premiership match at the Harry Gwala stadium last night. Deolin Mekoa opened the scoring for Maritzburg seven minutes into the second half, but it was all in vain as the Team of Choice had to settle for a share of the spoils on the night. The draw is Maritzburg s fifth of the season and sees them in ninth place with 11 points from as many matches. It is Chippa s fourth draw of the season and puts them in 10th place, with 10 points from 11 matches. Neither side could find the back of the net in the first half. A poor mistake by Daniel Akpeyi seven minutes into the second half gifted Mekoa the ball inside the box and he made no mistake. Chippa came close to scoring in the 73rd minute when Bongani Kama met a free-kick into the box by Marc van Heerden. His header struck the crossbar. Two minutes later, Chippa found the equaliser when Lorch headed home a pinpoint cross from Van Heerden. Both sides then pushed hard for a winner but neither could find the back of the net. Meanwhile, a 1-1 draw against Kaizer Chiefs last night at the FNB Stadium elevated Cape Town City to the top of the Absa Premiership table. Goals from Mitchell Katsvairo and Matthew Sim gave both sides one point apiece in a tightly contested encounter, as Amakhosi took their winless run to seven matches in all competitions. In the wake of the draw, Eric Tinkler s men now top the log table with 21 points from 11 league matches so far. It was still 1-0 to Steve Komphela s men at half time. In the 53rd minute, Sim grabbed an equaliser for the visitors as he unleashed a wonderful long-range shot. City continued to control the game thereafter but failed to make their advantage count. The draw moves Amakhosi to the fourth spot on the table with 17 points, behind the third-placed Bidvest Wits. Two second-half goals helped SuperSport United beat Bidvest Wits 2-0 at the Mbombela Stadium last night. As a result, Matsatsantsa climbed to second on the league standings, while the Clever Boys dropped down to third spot. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share