CLOSING IN: Chippa United s Paseka Mako and Orlando Pirates Mpho Makola compete for the ball during their Absa Premiership match at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium last night Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Bay team start well but fail to find back of net A first-half goal by Tendai Ndoro saw Orlando Pirates consign Chippa United 1-0 to their second consecutive defeat in the Premier Soccer League at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium last night. Ahead of the game, coach Dan Malesela said his side needed to tighten up their defence and work on getting the ball inside the net. These are two elements that need serious intervention if Chippa want to get back to their winning form. They also lost 2-1 to Cape Town City on Saturday and have gone six games without a win. It has been more than a month since the Port Elizabeth side recorded a victory in the PSL. For Pirates, it was a job well done as they clinched their second consecutive victory in the league following the 1-0 win over Free State Stars at the weekend. The first five minutes of the game started like a house on fire, with both teams looking for an early opener. Bucs found it difficult to penetrate the Chilli Boys defence at first. However, the harder the Soweto giants kept pushing, the more they stretched Chippa United s defence. A mistake at the back saw unmarked Ndoro sneak in comfortably to score behind the Chilli Boys defence 20 minutes into the game. Three minutes later, Thembinkosi Lorch tried to pull one back for Chippa but his attempt went straight into the hands of goalkeeper Jackson Mabokgwane. Soon afterwards, Andile Mbenyane s strike outside the box was pushed out by Mahlongwane falling to the right foot of David Zulu, who sent the ball flying over the crossbar. Both teams came out fired up in the second with Bucs looking to extend their lead and Chippa desperate to find an equaliser. Chippa striker Katlego Mashego s only clear chance at goal was comfortably saved by Pirates keeper Mabokgwane in the 60th minute. The Chilli Boys created many chances following that but they just could not find the back of the net. The more they pushed, the more Pirates came at them on the counter-attack. Meanwhile, Ajax Cape Town s wait for a first win of the season is over, after they defeated Platinum Stars 3-2 at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium last night. The Urban Warriors scored through Bantu Mzwakali, Prince Nxumalo and an own goal from Dikwena goalkeeper Steven Hoffman, while the hosts netted consolations through Vuyo Mere and Benson Shilongo. The first half was a catastrophe for Platinum Stars, who committed a string of defensive errors inside the first half hour to find themselves 3-0 down. From there, the match was always going to be beyond rescuing. Cape Town City beat Maritzburg United 3 -2. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share