CHEERING THEM ON: The Beggar-in-Chief of The Herald Christmas Cheer Fund, Steven Lancaster, left, with T20 cricket players Somila Seyibokwe and Christiaan Jonker practise for the upcoming T20 games.Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Home wins high on agenda for two St George s Park T20 encounters Home wins will be high on the agenda as the high-flying Warriors play two T20 Challenge cricket matches at St George s Park over the next six days. Their first assignment is against the Highveld Lions starting at 6pm tonight and the following game will be against the Knights, also in Port Elizabeth and at the same time on Wednesday. Victory in both will put the Warriors well in contention for a home playoff berth at the halfway stage. The Warriors are handily placed in second position on the log standings after three games in the competition. Away wins over the Dolphins and the Knights have set them on their way and they will be confident of adding to that tally over the next few days. From the start we wanted to make sure we played well at home, coach Malibongwe Maketa said yesterday. So to go away from home and get two wins is encouraging and it does put us under pressure in terms of reaching our goal of playing well at home, but it s something we are looking forward to. Christiaan Jonker, Colin Ackermann and Jon-Jon-Smuts have performed well with the bat, while Andrew Birch is the competition s leading wicket-taker with eight scalps. Hot on his heels is fellow seamer Basheer Walters with five. But Maketa said it had been more of a team effort so far than thanks to any particular individuals. A few individuals have stood up at certain times, but if you look at the games in totality it s been a great team per formance, he said. The bowlers have bowled well up front with the new ball we have struck early and we have also bowled well at the death.&#8221; More importantly, we have complemented that with some great fielding. We have taken our chances whereas last year we put ourselves under pressure by not taking the half chances.&#8221; It s difficult to choose and look at any individual performances because it s been a great team effort throughout. Maketa said fans should not be fooled by the Lions position of last on the log. He said they were a much better side than that. The Lions are a team who have always done well and they have some game-breakers in their ranks, which makes them a really dangerous team in this format.&#8221; As a team you only need two guys to come off on the day and you can win. We know we are up for a good game and we want to be the team which remains calmest. &#8220;The Warriors mentor said the team were looking forward helping members of the crowd grab a share of the Win a Million catching competition. We would love to get someone from Port Elizabeth and East London into the mix.&#8221; With Jonkie [Jonker] batting and the spinners bowling, they must make sure they get to cow corner and long on for the slog sweep, he laughed. Generally though, most of our guys like to hit our boundaries straight. It may not sound ideal for the fans that we try to hit the sight screen but hopefully we create some opportunities for them. The log-leading Titans host the Cobras in Centurion tonight and Titans coach Mark Boucher continues to strive for improvement. In his first season as a coach, he is also not willing to take their massive early season eight-point lead for granted. I still think there s a long way to go in the competition and we need to continue playing the brand of cricket we are to stay where we are, he said. So we will continue working hard behind the scenes and make sure we keep our feet firmly on the ground knowing it s a long tournament ahead still. The match between the Knights and the Dolphins will now be a day match starting at 2pm. This is because of vandalism of the lights at the Manguang Oval in Bloemfontein. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share