The Voice judges are, from left, Lira, Karen Zoid, Kahn Morbee and Bobby van Jaarsveld Filming season two of television singing competition The Voice South Africa kicked off earlier this week, with all four coaches from the first season back in their seats. The blind auditions for the second season started on Tuesday evening at the Sasani Studios in Johanesburg, where The Voice SA is recorded, with all four coaches swirling in their red seats, picking and fighting over who to choose in their teams. The auditions, held in Johannesburg, attracted several talented singers and Port Elizabeth fans of the show are in for some for major surprises as a few familiar faces who have entered competitions such as Idols SA made it to the blind auditions. How they fared compared to their competition will be revealed when the show is aired next year on M-Net (DStv 101) on January 29. Filming will continue on next week, with and presenter Lungile Radu is back on as the hostwhile Stacey Norman will be interviewing contestants backstage. During the auditions, several singers received standing ovations from audience members, resulting in the excited coaches going all out to nab them for their teams. A few lucky contestants had all four chairs turning for them, prompting coaches to fight each other and try and secure the talent for their teams. A very enthusiastic Bobby van Jaarsveld, who is one of the coaches, often jumped out of his chair after some of the performances. M-Net has promised a lot more surprises for fans and viewers of the show, such as more performances and episodes. Viewing of The Voice South Africa will include the blind auditions, the battle rounds, live shows and the finale. Port Elizabeth was included for the first time this year in the countrywide search to discover the South Africa s favourite voice. The coaches include Kahn Morbee, who is most known as the frontman of indie-rock band The Parlotones. Richard Stirton, who was coached by Morbee, won season one of The Voice. Coach Karen Zoid, hailed as the country s rock queen, moves easily between English and Afrikaans and is also known for being frank with the singers. Eleven-time South African Music Award (Sama) winner, Lira is also a coach and is known for her unique blend of R&amp;B, jazz and African styles. And last but not least, Afrikaans heartthrob Bobby Van Jaarsveld, who recently underwent undergone vocal cord surgery, is a pop singer who also has a Sama under his belt and has melted the hearts of many South African women. M-Net s head of publicity Lani Lombard said season one of the show had set the bar incredibly high and said they were looking forward to opening doors for more fantastic talent who deserve to become household names . Catch The Voice SA runner-up Gavin Edwards at The Music Kitchen, in Newton Park, on December 10. For more information, call (041)364-1964. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share