Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson File picture: Gallo Images / Nardus Engelbrecht The public consultation process over the draft integrated energy plan and integrated resource plan would relate to the assumptions made by the Department of Energy and the base case scenario that was adopted in formulating them Energy Minister Joemat-Pettersson said Tuesday. The soundness of these assumptions of future energy demand is critical in determining what new energy supply is needed to meet future demand. The draft integrated energy plan attempts to project SA s energy demand and supply up to 2050 using amongst other things assumptions about future economic growth. The public will also be asked to comment on other scenarios that ought to be considered. The minister said at a media briefing on the two plans that were adopted by Cabinet three weeks ago that the department had completed two of the four key milestones regarding the development of the integrated resource plan. These were the settling of key assumptions and the development of a base case. The third milestone is the modelling and analysing the scenarios and sensitivities which the minister said is currently underway. All this information will be drawn together to develop a final plan taking into account the various scenarios and policy positions. Joemat-Pettersson said the integrated resource plan and the integrated energy plan &#8220;aims to balance similar objectives which are: security of supply cost of electricity job creation and localisation minimal negative environmental impact minimal water usage to diversity of supply sources (the energy mix) and promotion of energy access&#8221;. The minister said a draft framework which would explore possible options for the development of a gas market was being developed. The integrated resource plan takes into account the key drivers of the sector such as energy security environmental obligations prevailing local and regional infrastructure capabilities cost of chosen technologies demand and supply options. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share