CHARLES PEYPER Friend recalls terror as truck crashes into dolosse on N2 A young angler who narrowly escaped death in a freak accident that killed his friend, told yesterday how he heard the sound of metal grinding against stone and saw sparks flying as a truck barrelled towards the dolosse on the N2 where they were fishing. He said he knew something terrible had happened to Charles Peyper, 22, when he saw his old school friend s fishing rod floating in the water below. Cornay Wasserman, 22, said that after the truck crashed into the dolosse where they had been fishing, he shouted out to his three friends to make sure they were all safe but Peyper did not answer. Then we went closer to see where he was, but when I saw his fishing rod floating close to where he had been standing I knew something terrible had happened. The accident happened at about 10.30pm on Monday when a truck and trailer, transporting a load of iron ore, left the road and crashed through the barrier fence next to the N2, and landed on top of Peyper. Charles was interested in fishing competitively with us, so we invited him along whenever we went out, Wasserman said. The two of us had been fishing at Happy Valley when our friends, Ruan Whiteley and Ruan Louwrens, told us the fish were biting at the dolosse, so we went there. Wasserman helped Peyper set his rod up and was heading towards Whiteley, who was sitting on a footpath between the dolosse and the N2, when they heard a loud noise. Louwrens was still on the dolosse about 50m from Charles, Wasserman said. When we looked up and saw the truck coming at us, Whiteley and I started running to get out of the way. MANGLED WRECK: The truck is entangled in dolosse at the scene of the horror accident Sparks were flying everywhere and the truck drove over the spot where we had been sitting. When the truck came to a standstill, Whiteley and I started calling out. Louwrens answered and the truck driver also yelled that he was fine, but Charles did not respond. When they realised what had happened, they notified the authorities and asked friends to inform Peyper s family. His mother and stepfather were first on the scene, Wasserman said. His mother was very emotional, so authorities took his stepfather to identify the body. All you could see were his legs sticking out from beneath the wreckage. It all happened so quickly I am not even sure if Charles saw or heard the truck coming. Wasserman said he could not help but feel guilty. I brought him there to fish with us, he said. His family said I should not worry, but deep down I cannot help feeling a little responsible. The accident has left Peyper s family searching for answers. According to the authorities, the truck smashed through the fence next to the N2, opposite the warehouses in Deal Party, before travelling about 100m off-road and crashing into the dolosse. Police said while the truck driver initially fled, he returned shortly afterwards. No skid marks were found on the scene. Emergency services and rescue staff worked until 3am dismantling parts of the truck to free Peyper s body. Officials were still removing parts of the wreckage yesterday morning. Peyper s shattered stepfather, Paul Dam, said: It is something you just never expect to happen. We are all still in shock and trying to understand how this could happen. He was such a kind and lovely child. It is the phone call every parent dreads getting, your heart skips a few beats. I was about to go to sleep when all of a sudden my phone rang, followed by my wife s phone. I just knew something had happened. Dam and other relatives questioned how the accident had happened, with no brake marks from the truck visible on or off the road. Peyper s brother-in-law, Nolan van Eyk, 36, with whom he lived in Glenroy Park, said he had been alerted to the former Framesby High pupil s death by a friend. As soon as he told me, I just grabbed a jacket and sped down to the crash, he said. While rushing down there, I started calling all the family. Van Eyk said Peyper had dreamed of joining the police force. He was very passionate about fighting crime and helping people. He wanted to apply in the next intake, he said. Police spokesman Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said the truck driver claimed he had been overtaking another truck when he lost control. The horse and trailer veered into the nearby dolosse where the fishermen were standing, Labans said. It appears the truck flipped on impact and landed on the deceased. The truck driver originally fled the scene but returned later. Labans said the cause of the accident was being investigated. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share