RE Workers slam conditions on farms (The Herald, November 7). The Sundays River Valley Citrus Producer Forum (SRVCPF) was launched in 2016. Its purpose is twofold: to promote and coordinate the citrus industry; to ensure that service delivery is maintained to the communities of the Sundays River Valley. The first objective is perhaps information for another day but the second is applicable. Fruit from all producers in the Sundays River Valley is exported all over the globe. To maintain international retail relationships, the producers are all certificated by GlobalGAP and all subscribe to Siza. You can easily research these organisations and their principles on ethical trading etc. Furthermore, the labour and safety laws are certainly applicable as for any other industry. While the article quotes people who make allegations as they please that the citrus producers are in contravention of the codes above, we will maintain that the opposite is in fact true. Our members are constantly audited according to the rules of aforementioned organisations and also undergo regular Department of Labour visits. Furthermore, regular health and safety meetings are held in workplaces and many workplace forums have been established. For any producer, contravention of the rules can result not only in criminal sanction but also in the loss of market access. The risk is simply too high. Should any employer be found to be in contravention of any laws, the legal system makes provision for recourse as in any other industry. Subsequent to the period of social unrest two years ago, the industry via the SRVCPF has been campaigning hard to ensure a better life for all in this valley. The general manager, Mr Greg Jones, himself works alongside municipal employees to ensure that water, electricity and sewerage services are constantly maintained. The results are tangible and visible to all who want to see the progress made. The forum and local Sanco are in a harmonious relationship and recently started a regular discussion platform in order to determine if needs of the community can be met more easily. The most prominent BEE projects in South Africa are in the SRV and that is as a result of the attitude of the SRVCPF members. The ones established some years ago by SRCC and the government are all very successful. Recent interaction with Premier Masualle and the MECs led to the further allocation of water rights for more projects as well as Kirkwood having been added to the list of towns to be revitalised. Therefore, we state again that such allegations as raised against the citrus producers are simply untrue and that any organisation should certainly be careful to simply sponsor such events. Furthermore, we maintain that the relationships in the Sundays River Valley are indeed harmonious and would suggest that organisations such as the one in your article kindly seek dialogue and constructive interaction rather than support meetings where false statements are made. We do indeed look forward to the CCMA intervention as quoted and trust that they will indeed facilitate it. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share