ON THE MOVE: Councillor Andrew Whitfield, left, Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism head Mandlakazi Skefile and Ryler Masterton of Mastertons attend the launch of the tourism app, complete with a special coffee blend Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Map, audio guide will help tourists maximise visit A travel app that offers audio guided tours and points of interest that pop up on a digital map when the user is nearby, was launched by Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism on Tuesday. The Nelson Mandela Bay Travel App will allow the public to visit tourist attractions, historical buildings and beaches while gaining some history behind their destinations. It also lists events in the city and emergency contact numbers. The new app was launched at the Donkin Reserve on Tuesday. Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism IT coordinator Erenei Louw said the plan was to bring more business to the city through the app. The functionality that comes with the app includes restaurants, accommodation, scenery and events that will pop up on the guide at the points closest to you, Louw said. He said the app was also linked to social media. Through this app, we hope to bring more business to the city by showing what there is to do in the Bay that will be perfect for sight-seeing. The app also has an interactive side where users can add events and restaurants, but this will need approval first. We really want to encourage the public to use and share the app with their families and friends, Louw said. The metro s political head of economic development, tourism and agriculture, councillor Andrew Whitfield, said the app was not only exciting for tourists, but for residents of the city as well. I use this app to see what is happening in the city. It is easy to navigate, he said. We are a 15- to 20-minute city in most directions, most of our products are in a 30 minute radius of each other which will allow you to do a huge amount in one day. Whitfield said if the app allowed people to plan their stay before their arrival, it would put the city in an innovative space. We really are a world-class city with world-class products. We also have the best beachfront in the world, he said. Our city is rich in history with a few under-appreciated areas, but we have to look at how we can expand our tourism into those areas. Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism partnered with Mastertons Coffee and Tea Specialists to create an exclusive Blend of the Bay coffee for the launch of the app. The app is available on Google Play, Apple App Store and the Windows Store. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share