LIVELY SESSION: DA leader Mmusi Maimane speaks to supporters at a meeting at the Lillian Ngoyi Hall in Kwazakhele during a visit to Port Elizabeth yesterday Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Checking on progress in Nelson Mandela Bay since the DA-led coalition took over there ins in August, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said while he could see changes in the party s first 100 days in charge, it meant nothing without proper service delivery. I see the DA [led] government is busy. But this is not enough if people don t have jobs, if the people of Walmer [township] are still using bucket toilets, he said. The work is far from done. He was in the city as part ofthe DA s #BackToThePeople campaign aimed at thanking supporters. Earlier, he met the Bay s political leadership, emphasizing that service delivery was what the party had promised. We inherited a dire situation from the ANC, Maimane said. I told them that their focus must be on service delivery. We still have a long way to go. The ANC [allegedly] looted in this city and people did not have a chance of getting services. Things are different now. Addressing hundreds of DA supporters at the Lillian Ngoyi Hall in Kwazakhele, Maimane also laid into President Jacob Zuma, vowing to hold him to account in today s parliamentary question and answer session. He labelled Zuma a criminal. Zuma says he knows who the other tsotsis are when he is tsotsi No 1. He did not report corruption and that is a criminal offence. Maimane said the DA had written to Speaker Baleka Mbethe s office demanding that she not be allowed to chair today s parliamentary proceedings. We believe Baleka Mbetheis supportive of Zuma, therefore she cannot lead the proceedings, he said. Why is she defending a criminal? Unless she is a criminal herself. He said the Hawks had told him the case opened against Zuma last week on state capture would be investigated. Maimane will meet with the head of the Serious Commercial Crimes Unit at the Hawks in a few days. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share