Marli van Schaijk carries Stella van Schaijk Picture: Nina Claasen Lifestyle Photography Family Ties is hosting the very first Arise adoption conference in Port Elizabeth on November 19 at the Oxygen Life Church in South End. The registered non-profit organisation, previously known as PE Ulutho, has partnered with Arise Cape Town to bring the conference here. Family Ties focuses on support for adoptive and foster families as well as raising awareness around adoption and foster care. Arise in an organisation based in Cape Town that assists, promotes, and supports adoption and foster care for children without families and provide family support through community organisation partnerships. Co-founder Jill Pedersen, an adoptive parent herself, said one of the reasons for the conference was that she had found there was very little information on the process. The conference is aimed at equipping families, teachers and anyone who deals with adopted children with the understanding of the emotional journey that a child goes through when being raised, especially those with some level of trauma, Pedersen said. Pedersen said the conference would also look at how to deal with grief, loss, attachment, trans-racial adoption and cultural influences on an adopted child. Family Ties is not an adoption agency but rather has a focus on walking the road with families and offering support along the way. Pedersen added the event was inspired by Arise Adoption Cape Town which had been running the conference for several years and have now partnered with Arise to bring the same concept to the windy city. The conference is a day to give one hope and information and it s an exciting resource and opportunity for the community of PE and surrounds, Pedersen said. Family Ties co-founder, Ingrid Ahlfeldt said the conference was all adoptive and foster families and anyone interested in finding out more about adoption and people who have family, friends who have adopted anyone or those working with adoptive families such as teachers, therapists and social workers . The Family Ties Adoption Conference takes place November 19, at the Oxygen Life Church in South End and tickets are R150 per person. Registration for those interested closes on November 11 and tickets include lunch and care. Further information from Ahlfeldt on 082-550-9039. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share