The Warriors have put themselves into a superb position after claiming their second win in three matches in the CSA T20 competition so far. A thumping bonus-point 42-run win over the Knights in Bloemfontein on Sunday saw them move into second place on the log on 10 points, eight behind the high-flying Titans. I am really excited with the way we have started two wins and two bonus points is a great start and makes up for our loss against the Cobras in the second match, big-hitting middleorder batsman Christiaan Jonker said. Hopefully, we can continue with our good form. Jonker played an integral part in the match, slamming an unbeaten 48 off 27 balls, featuring four boundaries and two maximums, to power the Warriors to a competitive 157/5 after a middle-order wobble almost derailed their innings. The total then proved to be too much as a combination of tight bowling and scoreboard pressure saw the Knights collapse to 115 all out. I was really happy to get some good runs. As a team we knew from playing on the ground previously that getting over 150 would be a good score to defend, so it was all about me getting in and setting myself up for the last three or four overs to have a real go, which ended up happening, Jonker said. He has been in good form this season for Border and looks to have taken it into the Warriors mix. After scoring six not out against the Dolphins and then going out for a duck against the Cobras, he exploded into life against the Knights and he will be looking to keep the momentum going. I was really happy to have a few games with Border before the T20s started. I got a few good scores and it has helped me massively as it has finetuned my game so that I take a bit more time to get settled in before having a go in the later stages, Jonker said. For the Warriors, the good start has been all the more impressive as all three games played so far have been away. They will play five of their next seven pool games at home, which should give them a boost with the home support behind them and favourable conditions. Their next game will be their first at home as they take on the Lions in Port Elizabeth on Friday evening. We are in a really good place but we still need to take it one game at a time and keep working towards making the semifinals, Jonker said. But we are very confident and are looking forward to playing a few home games and we would like to put in a top performance for our fans. Friday s match will start at 6pm, live on SuperSport 2. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share