Obama and president-elect meet at White House for excellent discussions Barack Obama and his successor Donald Trump held a 90-minute transition meeting in the Oval Office yesterday, with the outgoing president vowing his support after an excellent conversation . The Democratic US leader told the Republican president-elect his administration would do everything we canto help you succeed, because if you succeed, then the country succeeds . Obama said his talks with the billionaire political novice, held barely 36 hours after his upset election victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton, were wide-ranging. We talked about foreign policy. We talked about domestic policy, Obama said. Trump said the pair discussed a lot of different situations some wonderful and some difficulties and that he looked forward to receiving Obama s advice as he readies to assume office in January. This was a meeting that was going to last for maybe 10or 15 minutes, Trump said. The meeting lasted for almost an hour and a half. And, as far as I m concerned, it could have gone on for a lot longer. The two men ended the historic White House encounter with a handshake and refused to take questions. Meanwhile, more protests were planned across the US, a day after thousands of demonstrators took to the streets of big cities following Trump s victory. An anti-Trump rally was planned at New York City s Union Square Park for a second straight night and organisers urged demonstrators to join events in Washington DC, Baltimore, the University of Wiscons in and elsewhere. There were protests in at least 10 cities on Wednesday, including one that filled streets in Manhattan with demonstrators marching to Trump Tower, the president-elect s gilded home on Fifth Avenue. Many chanted: Not my president! and blasted his campaign rhetoric about immigrants, Muslims and other groups. But former New York mayor and high-profile Trump supporter Rudy Giuliani said the demonstrators were a bunch of spoiled cry-babies . If you re looking at the real left-wing loonies on the campus, it s the professors not the students, Giuliani said. But he encouraged Trump to listen to these voices and tell them to wait a year. Calm down, things are not as bad as you think, Giuliani said. On Wednesday, protests in Los Angeles and Oakland, California, each drew several thousand people. More than a dozen people were arrested by Los Angeles police when demonstrators tried to block a major highway intersection. At a protest in Chicago, Adriana Rizzo, 22, said: I m just really terrified about what is happening in this country. A Trump campaign representative did not respond to requests for comment on the protests. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share