Chanell and Josef Weyers understand one another&#8217;s pain because they share it When love bloomed in the dark, narrow passages of Livingstone Hospital s renal unit, even the doctors were caught by surprise. The doctors kept on asking us if we really met at the hospital!, Chanell Weyers, who married her husband Josef last month, says with a laugh. Theirs is a love story cemented in the shared trauma of a devastating disease, mutual joy in the lifesaving mercy of kidney donation and a deep appreciation of life. Chanell and Josef remind me of an oak tree that grew strong despite storm winds, or diamonds that are made under pressure, former matron of the unit Leonie Swanepoel says. They met each other at the renal unit and shared many difficulties and worries together. They helped each other, carried each other when they had to and have made a promise to stay together. They are very special to me and I am sincerely happy to be part of their lives and their family. Josef, 45, suffered kidney failure caused by high blood pressure and had been a dialysis patient at the unit since 2003. Chanell got ill in April 2008 but was first hospitalised at Greenacres Hospital. My dad died of kidney failure. After I was admitted to hospital my mom came to stand by my bed and her eyes were filled with tears. She just said: You have the same thing as your dad . Her mom, Antoinette Williams, decided to donate a kidney to her daughter and the transplant was done in Cape Town on July 1 2009. Josef received his kidney at the same hospital in February of the same year. As both then had to go back to the renal unit at Livingstone Hospital for their checkups it was there they met for the first time. If you told me that I would meet my wife at Livingstone Hospital I would never have believed you. It is not a place for romance. I always just wanted to get in and get out as soon as I could, Josef said. I was transferred to Livingstone Hospital after my surgery because I didn t have a medical aid anymore. Livingstone was a scary place. I didn t know the procedures. Josef was around back then but I didn t really take notice of him, Chanell says. It was here, while waiting for their checkups, that Chanell and Josef started talking. Chanell organised a big get-together for the renal patients at the end of 2008. This was when she phoned me to ask if I wanted to come. I was leaving on holiday so I couldn t go now I realise I missed our first date, Josef says. One day Chanell, Josef and a group of other patients were sitting outside and the conversation turned to tattoos. I always wanted one. Josef said he had one and lifted up his shirt to show me. That was the beginning of the romance and the two have officially been together since February 5 2009. I make a note to remember the date because it keeps me in the good books, Josef laughs. It is incredible to have someone in your life who knows exactly what you have been through, he adds. Healthy people don t always understand. Every time we go to the unit for our monthly checkups Josef and I talk about how lucky we were. You see who is still there for dialysis and you wonder when their time for a new kidney will come. He understands why I get emotional, Chanell says. Soon the couple got engaged and on October 21 this year they tied the knot at Falcon Rock restaurant near Lady Slipper. Wally Grewer, the longest-surviving patient on dialysis at Livingstone Hospital, was invited as a special guest of honour to their wedding. It was an incredible privilege to have him there, Chanell says. Since that day in February 2009 I can really say it has only been happy moments. We both got the gift of life through our donors. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share