Picture: Guy Rogers Picture: Guy Rogers Picture: Guy Rogers Picture: Guy Rogers Somewhere between St Croix and Ngqura on an empty piece of flat clear sea we came upon a lone Cape fur seal bull playing with a piece of fish. He had a big fillet between his jaws and was flipping out of the water repeatedly slapping it down on the surface, clearly having a great game. One of our passengers suggested he might in fact be trying to break the fish into smaller pieces but whatever the case he was having great fun doing it. Eventually he seemed to get tired of our clicking cameras and exclamations of delight and he simply submerged and disappeared. It was a balmy, beautiful morning and we were out in Algoa Bay with Stampede Cruises on their inaugural excursion courtesy of skipper and co-owner, Rod Lochhead, and the Zwartkops Conservancy. The much-anticipated trip was reward for the winners and runners-up in the conservancy s 2016 photo competition. Two of our passengers were from the Netherlands and the funny thing is that earlier on we had been talking about seals and had learnt from them that a seal in Dutch was a zeehond, a seadog. And that s exactly what our seal reminded us of, we realised a dog playing with a bone or a ball. Algoa Bay has been declared the global capital of the bottlenose dolphin and a large pod of them joined us the other side of Ngqura as if to emphasise this point. First they were racing along in the distance, now and then one breaching and crashing down with a splash. Then they popped up all around us like a royal retinue: to starboard their fins and glistening backs silhouetted black against the morning sun, and to port gunship grey framed by the bay coastline. We drew up close to the Port of Ngqura s imposing eastern breakwater with the dolosse stretching away into the distance and talked a bit around the old debate of whether they had orientated the breakwaters correctly. The breakwaters open to the southwest which is where our prevailing winds and near-shore current come from which would together presumably exacerbate storm swell. Jahleel Island is just 500m off the eastern breakwater and was one of the chief concerns when the new deepwater harbour was proposed, in terms of the island s importance to the endangered African penguin. There are just 60 000 of these birds left today across their global range from Algoa Bay around the Cape coast and up to Namibia and half of them are here in our bay. One of the conditions, when Ngqura was approved in 2007 was that no infrastructure must be installed adjacent to the eastern breakwater as this could shorten the distance enough to allow rats to swim across to Jahleel and pillage penguin eggs. In the late 1990s, I visited Jahleel with photographer, Mike Holmes, and seabird specialist, Dr Norbert Klages, and we counted 1 000 birds. Rats don t seem to have been a problem but the initial blasting during construction and now the increasing port and ship activity seem to have taken their toll and we did not see any penguins on the Jahleel rocks. But as we approached St Croix home to the African penguin s biggest colony across its entire range flotillas of these jaunty little black and white birds began appearing everywhere, bobbing about in the sea. Lochhead took us up close to the rich, dark mussel-encrusted rock lacing St Croix. Here the flotillas bounce around madly in the crashing surf somehow avoiding being shredded on the rocks. Their companions stand in their thousands like statues apparently waiting in line for a dip or a foraging foray, or drying off after the same. Cormorants and African black oystercatchers perch on the guano-splashed promontories and gulls and sharp-winged terns wield overhead. After circling St Croix, we puttered back via Brenton Island slightly smaller, but just as knobbly and vivid, with birds and birdcall ringed by surging waves. A single Cape gannet floated off-shore, its aristocratic black and gold marked face turned towards distant Bird Island, the biggest gannetry on the planet, on the eastern rim of the bay. On the way back, we took a line slightly further away from shore and drew up near to a ship being bunkered by one of the new little barges which began their offshore fuelling work in the bay in May. The process take place via a single pipe that stretches up from the barge to the ship and it was fascinating to be close enough to see how it all worked. It seemed a clean, quiet operation but SANParks warns that the sheer volume of bunkering business taking place is a spill waiting to happen and its proximity to the islands is of grave concern for the penguins. We left the first ship and found two more linked up before we reached Port Elizabeth Harbour, so there were at least three ships being bunkered at the same time that morning. Besides the pollution concern, the bunkering service being offered has resulted in a huge increase in shipping traffic in the bay of vessels that would otherwise have sailed past. This extra traffic has meant considerable economic gains for Nelson Mandela Bay Metro via extra business for ships chandlers and bay shops and hotels when the crew gets to come ashore. But many more ships also means many more huge anchors dropped on our seabed to be dragged back and forth with the swell. It would be interesting to get a study done on the effect of this on our seabed diversity, I think. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share