ROAD, TRACK-READY: Team Continental, ready to take on the Team Relay Challenge at The Herald Continental Cycle Tour 2017, are, from left, Michael Hammett, Johannes Meiring, Brett Wood, Ryan Visagie, Ashwell Isaacs and Gawie Henning Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Road cyclists, mountain bikers team up for new event For the first time in the event s history, The Herald Continental Cycle Tour introduces the Team Relay Challenge to its race collection. The event, on Saturday February 25, will see teams from across Nelson Mandela Bay competing for the very first Team Relay Challenge Champions title. It is a 20km road leg along Marine Drive, and a 15km mountain bike leg through the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University private nature reserve. The event hopes to attract cycling partners friends, couples or colleagues to share the experience of road and mountain biking in an exciting race with an enjoyable route. Those entering are also encouraged to dress up and enjoy the race s festive atmosphere. Apart from the cycling, each entrant taking part will also be supporting both Reach for a Dream and Imveli Cycling Academy. Road cyclists will have a mass start at the Pollok Beach Race Village, following Marine Drive. They will turn near The Willows Resort and head back to the start/finish. On arrival, the road cyclist will then hand over the armband baton to the mountain bike teammate. The mountain bike leg takes riders through the university nature reserve, including part of the Grysbok Nature Trail. The reserve has an abundance of wildlife, including springbok, Burchell s zebra, red hartebeest and duiker. After the off-road loop inside the reserve, mountain bike riders exit with a short final stretch along Marine Drive before crossing the finish line to clock their team s overall time. Both road and mountain bike routes are fairly flat and suited to novice riders. The Team Relay Challenge makes for a great leg-loosener before the feature road races, the 106km Classic and 55km Pursuit, on Sunday. Continental Tyre SA brand manager Ryan Visagie said: We are excited to introduce this all new race and welcome all school, corporate, family and friend teams to enter. blue Team Continental are relishing the opportunity to compete against all the other corporates we challenge them all to join us. Team Relay Challenge entries are limited so complete your entry online. Entries close at midnight on January 27. No late entries will be accepted online or at race pack collection. Entrants must collect their own race packs and sign when registering to complete their entry. To enter, go to www.heraldcycletour.co.za Queries can be directed to the race office by phone at (041) 504-7911, or by e-mail at heraldcycletour@timesmedia.co.za Follow us on Facebook (heraldcycletour) and Twitter (@heraldcycletour) for updates, news and reviews of all your cycling favourites. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share