Tokara winemaker Miles Mossop Weekend Post wine columnist Sam Venter has a Vine Time with Miles Mossop of Tokara It must be great to have a boss who s clear on expectations, and specific on the measurement of success. A little intimidating though, when that boss is banking legend GT Ferreira and his brief is I want to produce the best wine in the world you have five years . It s 2000 and FirstRand founder Ferreira has appointed Miles Mossop as the brand-new winemaker on his brand-new wine farm Tokara on the crest of the Helshoogte Pass above Stellenbosch there s no centuries-old heritage to build on, no long-established vines to work with, just a blank canvas (and money, lots of it, one assumes). Seventeen harvests later, Mossop and his boss are clearly continuing to meet mutual expectations the bulging trophy cabinet bears witness to that, as well as Ferreira s famously realistic approach to wine farming: he s often quoted as saying that in banking, ROE means return on equity, in wine it means return on ego . The latest additions to the awards table are two Platter s five-star ratings for the 2013 Reserve Cabernet Sauvignon and 2015 Director s Reserve white in the 2017 guide, launched last month. Mossop s approach to winemaking at Tokara is a fascinating blend of science and wine-maker s art, using technical analysis of every aspect and hi-tech that includes a drone equipped with multi-spectral cameras to deliver thermal imaging of the vineyards. It can take four weeks to pick a one-hectare block of chardonnay, with the best part of the block going to our top-end and the rest to entry-level. You can have a R200 and an R85 wine made from the same block, says Mossop. The attention to detail continues in selecting barrel types for fermenting and maturation, and then more technical analysis and some gut instinct to guide processes and timing, and the crucial part the composition of final blends which can take anything from two days to two weeks per wine. All our wines are blends, says Mossop, whether it s the chardonnay, a single varietal with components from different vineyard blocks and barrel types, or the multi-award-winning Director s Reserve white blend of sauvignon blanc and semillon. Blending is the most stressful part of wine-making, says Mossop, especially as he insists on making the final call by himself. Some get a lot of input in deciding on a blend, but I prefer to be more in control. The thing is, if you take the average of all opinions, you end up with an average result, and average clearly does not feature in the Tokara vocabulary. Making the Director s Reserve red a bordeaux-style cab sauv-led blend involves starting with a picture in my head , then rating and tasting every single barrel (and that could be 250 barrels, just for the cabernet component), eliminating those that don t fit the picture, tasting and rating the best again, and then fitting the pieces of a blend together. And that s just the cabernet the process is repeated for the merlot, petit verdot, cab franc and other constituents. This takes about two weeks of tasting and blending for four or five hours a day resulting not only in a superb wine, but also Mossop going home with black teeth and frightening my kids! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share