Jayde Panayiotou Picture: Supplied Jayde Panayiotou would have celebrated her 31st birthday on Tuesday, making it an exceptionally emotional week for her family and friends as they sat through the court proceedings. Senior court reporter Kathryn Kimberley takes a look at how the murder trial unfolded in week seven. FROM THE STATE: Lieutenant-Colonel Willie Mayi said after Jayde s kidnapping and murder on April 21 last year he received a call from a police informant, linking alleged middleman Luthando Siyoni to her death. This led to his questioning of Siyoni and his girlfriend, Babalwa Breakfast, who he claims quickly spilt the beans with regards to the hit. It was the lighter moments, such as Siyoni snoring in the back of his van, that allowed Warrant Officer Dirk Greeff to recall enough information to rebut his testimony. Siyoni claimed he did not sleep or eat in the days leading to his confession in Fort Beaufort. Greeff also said he bought Siyoni a pie and cooldrink on the way back to Port Elizabeth. Captain Ntembiso Ndzenzevu said when he met Siyoni on the morning of April 28 last year, he first explained to him that he was not compelled to give a statement and had the immediate right to an attorney. Siyoni was happy to continue with the confession. Ndzenzevu said he wrote down everything the bouncer told him. FROM THE DEFENCE: Three past cases criticising his conduct came back to haunt Mayi as he was forced to answer to allegations of assaults and threats to the state s key witness. Advocate Terry Price SC accused Greeff of having a selective memory and failing to record important details in his pocket book. Experienced cop Ndzenzevu, who has nearly three decades under his belt, said he would not have taken down Siyoni s confession had he informed him that he had been assaulted by police. Ndzenzevu also agreed with Price that material differences in statements often pointed to someone, somewhere along the line, not telling the truth and that it was concerning. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share