Take a break from tradition and bake the brightest yule log ever, using a recipe from a brand-new cookery book, Rainbow Bakes by Mina Sinclair. British food stylist and recipe creator Mima has brought out a new cookery book that zooms in on the trend towards rainbow cakes. The result is a collection of delicious cakes, cupcakes, biscuits, small bakes and desserts that will brighten anyone s day With a Scottish father born in Calcutta, who lived in Italy and has a fine wine company, and a Dutch mother who lived in Trinidad and thinks chocolate sprinkles are a suitable toast topping (it s a Dutch thing) it s no surprise that I have developed a keen interest in foods of the world and a rather sweet tooth, she says of her consuming passions. Mima includes helpful tips and techniques so you can make your creations with confidence. Rainbow Cakes includes a Christmas Ombre Crepe Cake, Rainbow Yule Log, Disco Dip Valentine s cookies, a Pi ata Cake filled with hidden sweets, Marshmallow Funfetti Blondies, a Macaroon tower, Multicoloured Meringues and of course, the ultimate Rainbow Layer Cake. Mima has years of experience writing, testing and developing recipes and her previous book, Gingerbread Wonderland, also contains imaginative recipes for Christmas entertaining. Rainbow Christmas log As well as your normal baking paraphernalia you also will need six disposable piping bags and a clean tea towel Ingredients: 4 large eggs 100g caster sugar plus extra for sprinkling food colouring pastes (purple, blue, green, yellow, orange and red) 150g plain cake flour 3/4 t baking powder 40 unsalted butter, melted and cooled Filling: 250ml whipping cream 50g icing sugar, plus extra for dusting 1/2 t vanilla extract Method: Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C. Grease and line a 26cm x37cm Swiss roll tin with baking parchment. Using an electric hand whisk, whisk the eggs and caster sugar together in a medium bowl until pale, thick and doubled in volume. Working quickly, gently divide the mixture between six smaller bowls and stir a food colour paste into each portion. Sift the flour and baking powder into a separate bowl to combine evenly. Sprinkle 3 tablespoons of the flour mixture over each portion of coloured egg mixture with a drizzle of the melted butter, then fold it in very gently with a metal spoon until just combined, being careful not to knock the air out. Gently spoon each coloured mixture into a separate piping bag, then cut off each tip to create a 2 cm hold. Pipe lines of the mixtures diagonally across the prepared tin a in a rainbow pattern, making sure the lines touch each other and continue until the tin is full and the all the mixture is used up. Bake for 12-14 minutes or until springy and dry to the touch. Place a large sheet of baking parchment onto a clean surface and sprinkle with castor sugar. Carefully turn out the hot sponge onto the paper, peeling away the lining paper. Loosely roll up the sponge from a short side, with the sugared paper inside, wrap with a damp tea towel, then leave to cool completely on a wire rack. For the whipped cream filling, pour the cream into a large bowl and, using an electric hand whisk, whip the cream until soft peaks form. Sift over the icing sugar and add the vanilla extract, then whisk again briefly until just combined. Gently unroll the sponge cake and spread evenly with the cream filling. Re-roll the sponge (minus the paper), finishing with the join underneath. Dust with icing sugar and serve. Rainbow Bakes is published by Kyle Books, distributed in South Africa by Jonathan Ball, and retails for R215. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share