OUT OF SQUAD: Tebogo Langerman during a recent national team training session at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Picture: GALLO IMAGES Furman, Langerman sidelined for clash against Senegal in World Cup qualifier Bafana Bafana were dealt a double whammy when defensive midfielder Dean Furman and left-back Tebogo Langerman were ruled out of the World Cup qualifier against Senegal on Saturday with injuries. This was according to a tweet on the official Bafana Bafana Twitter page. The move stands contrary to earlier assertions by national team management that Furman had only received a minor injury and was 90% certain to meet Senegal at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Tebogo Langerman and Dean Furman have been released from the Bafana squad after picking up injuries. Replacements to follow the Bafana page tweeted. Furman has been in form for SuperSport United notably in their 6-1 league win over Orlando Pirates and the Telkom Knockout victory against Mamelodi Sundowns and for the country. He scored Bafana s goal in their 1-1 draw against Burkina Faso in their opening World Cup qualifier against Burkina Faso in Ouagadougou last month. Furman and Langerman were two of four injuries before Saturday s Russia 2018 qualifier. Two picked up injuries in training after their arrival in camp for the crucial match against a strong Lions of Teranga. Two others arrived with injuries. Bafana team doctor Thulani Ngwenya said yesterday that central midfielder Andile Jali was being treated but should start against Senegal while goalkeeper Ronwen Williams was to have a scan along with Furman and Langerman. Jali missed the last World Cup qualifier with a [thigh] injury. However he s here now he s training Ngwenya said. He trained with the team in the morning fully yesterday but we are managing him hence he missed the afternoon practice game. But he s fine we re treating him we hope he will be ready. &#8221; Furman had a ribcage injury from his club match [quarterfinal against Downs] for SuperSport. He never felt it until he came here.&#8221; Williams fell badly during training yesterday and had a [collarbone] injury. Langerman pulled his hamstring yesterday afternoon. Bafana 62nd in Fifa s world rankings began their Russia 2018 qualifying campaign with a 1-1 away draw against Burkina Faso. Senegal 32nd started with a 2-0 home win against Cape Verde Islands. Meanwhile, it has become an all too often told story: Bafana Bafana have an important match to play and in the build-up, instead of focusing on the game, coach Shakes Mashaba rambles about a lack of media support. At a press conference in Polokwane yesterday, Mashaba pleaded for media support which would have been all very well had it not been a plea tinged by veiled and paranoid accusations of perceived press treachery. Mashaba went as far as to suggest his technical team had not received credit for qualifying for last year s Africa Cup of Nations. They did a chorus of it from almost all corners. Bafana s coach increased the perception that at 66 he is out of touch with modern football; unable to take legitimate criticism such as for his acknowledged errors not qualifying for Afcon 2017; and out of sync with a world of social media which he pays too much attention to. I know everyone has been talking and saying We are playing against a very strong Senegal and we have never beaten Senegal Mashaba said. Senegal have never beaten us as well. Let s stop playing second fiddle to other people. Let us be proud of ourselves. We are always inviting dead lions as ourselves instead of us projecting ourselves as lions.&#8221; &#8220;It s a plea it s not to say we are fighting with you.&#8221; I d like to stress this point. Bafana hasn t beaten Senegal. Senegal hasn t beaten us as well. So I don t know what makes it difficult and different. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share