Montenegrin Darko Saveljic stands next to his donkeys near the village of Gradina Martinicka. Picture: AFP/ Savo Prelevic Machines long ago usurped a donkey s traditional role as the farmer s beast of burden, but the animals are winning new fans in Montenegro thanks to their luxury milk. It comes at a trickle, and selling at a hefty 50 (R755) per litre it could provide a lifeline for the Balkan donkey breed, whose numbers have sharply declined. But it is the product s therapeutic potential that makes it stand out, according to producers and buyers. This milk is extremely healthy for skin disease and other diseases, Darko Saveljic,42, said as he squeezed 2.5cm of the white stuff from Tereza, one of 30 donkeys at his sanctuary in the central Montenegrin countryside. Even small daily amounts could help tackle asthma and bronchitis, he said. The animals are first milked just two to three months after giving birth and produce only 400 millilitres a day, a fraction of what a cow can provide. The product s price tag is significant in Montenegro, home to 620 000 people and an average monthly wage of about 500 (R7 500). About half an hour away in the capital Podgorica, Valeria Markovic contacted the farm after searching online for a cure for her five-year-old son, Vlado, whose allergies were making it difficult for him to breathe at night. After drinking a small amount each day, Vlado s symptoms became milder than they were before, she said. A dairy science expert and assistant professor at Cyprus University of Technology, Photis Papademas, said there were strong indications that donkey milk was effective against disorders resulting from a poor immune system, but that clinical studies were needed. Donkey products are also promoted in Serbia, where the Zasavica Nature Reserve claims to sell the world s most expensive cheese made from donkey milk for 6 000 dinars (R725) per 50 grams. Montenegro s last agricultural census in 2010 put the donkey population at about 500, although Saveljic estimates there are now only 150, and this year the animal was included in a national conservation programme for indigenous breeds. An ornithologist by training, he set up the farm more than a year ago to preserve the mountainous country s donkeys, alarmed by dwindling numbers of the indigenous and domesticated Balkan breed. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share