&nbsp; Flying wing Alshaun Bock will bring something extra special to his team in Super Rugby next year, says Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids. Bock, 34, is on loan from Griquas and is hungry to make an impression on the international stage after a career that has earned him more than 100 first class tries. Despite his standout showings in the Currie Cup, Bock has yet to win a Super Rugby cap and this missing piece of the jigsaw puzzle is set to inspire him to greater heights. I have had a good chat to Alshaun. He has set goals for himself and is looking forward to playing Super Rugby. He is embracing this opportunity after having not played Super Rugby before , Kings head coach Deon Davids said. Bock, a former Blitzbok and SA U21 wing, has been a stalwart for the Eagles and Griquas in recent years, and also played for the SA President s XV in the Tbilisi Cup in 2013. I feel Alshaun is really a great example for young players to look up to. He has had a long rugby career and is in good physical condition, Davids said. I think he will bring something special and he had an exceptional season for Griquas this year.&#8221; He has great pace and is a good finisher. On top of that he is a good leader and can be a mentor to the young players in the squad, like Yaw Penxe and Malcolm Jaer.&#8221; He can assist throughout the competition and we are looking forward to seeing him in the Kings jersey. Alshaun is a true professional on and off the field and is hungry to succeed. Bock is known as a deadly finisher when he has the tryline in his sights. Apart from Bock, the other players loaned from Griquas are lock Mzwanele Zito and scrumhalf Rudi (Poerie) van Rooyen. Van Rooyen came through the junior ranks at the Blue Bulls before moving to Griquas. He has been one of Griquas scrumhalf options since 2014. There will be a fierce tussle for the scrumhalf berth, with James Hall the early frontrunner to start in the opening match against the Jaguares. The other scrumhalfs on the Kings books are Ricky Schroeder, who led the Kings in the Currie Cup, and Johan Steyn, James Hall is playing in France, but is expected to return to Port Elizabeth in January. All these players have experience at senior provincial level throughout South Africa and it s great to have them available for the Kings next year, Davids said. Zito, a lock who can also play blindside flanker, represented Eastern Province at U18 Academy Week in 2006. In 2013, he played Varsity Cup for the Madibaz, and is back in Port Elizabeth after playing his rugby for SWD and Griquas the past four seasons. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share