Mafikizolo duo Nhlanhla Nciza and Theo Kgosinkwe Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Award-winning musical duo Mafikizolo were in Port Elizabeth yesterday to promote their latest single, Kacheza. After four years of not releasing any new music, the Johannesburg-based team of Nhlanhla Nciza and Theo Kgosinkwe have come up with another hit that has been topping the charts since its release last week. Nciza said the single came from their upcoming album due for release early next year. The single provides a taste of what their fans could expect from their 10th studio album. We ve been quiet for such a long time. It s been four years since we released anything fresh so we decided for this festive season leading to next year, we re promoting this song, Nciza said. Kgosinkwe, who is as famous for his dance moves as his music, said they continued working with DJ Maphorisa from Uhuru, whom they worked with on the hit track, Khona, for the album. We have a very good relationship with Maphorisa and we ve worked together on our previous singles such as Khona, Happiness and Tchelete , he said. We also co-wrote the song with a Tanzanian musician called Vanessa. Kgosinkwe said they wanted people to have a Mafikizolo offering for this summer. The group will be celebrating 20 years in the industry and the upcoming album will feature 20 tracks to commemorate the milestone as well as a special feature for their third member, Tebogo Madingoane. Madingoane was gunned down in 2004. We definitely want to incorporate and celebrate him, because he s always with us and there s no point where we ever say he left the band, Kgosinkwe said. Through all of our achievements, he s there even though it may only be in spirit. But we re still planning what we can do. Even though they have been in the industry for two decades, Kgosinkwe and Nciza keep on reinventing themselves, something Nciza said was pivotal in their industry. We keep reinventing ourselves with each album we put out, which is also why fashion is a big part of who Mafikizolo is. We also try and steer clear of negativity that will harm our brand, Nciza said. Mafikizolo hope to reach the international market with their upcoming album. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share