Cayly Warner has directed and produced Lattes and Love A Port Elizabeth filmmaker is presenting a short documentary on seven inspiring Eastern Cape women including her story of how she overcame a vicious gang rape to the public this week. Former drama teacher and television presenter Cayly Warner, 27, has directed and produced Lattes and Love with cinematography by Jono Jebus and will screen the film at Urban Espress Cafe in the Donkin Village on Thursday. The survivor of a gang rape in 2009, it took four years before Warner had the satisfaction of seeing her attackers jailed for life. Her own story of hope is one of the seven cameos in Lattes and Love. I am passionate about film and media and think that it holds a very powerful platform. This platform can either be used for good or bad, Warner said. This is what I find so fascinating about media. She said she had met many interesting and powerful women and these became the focus of the 40-minute documentary. One doesn t normally get to hear many stories coming out of the Eastern Cape, especially via the platform of film and media. Some of these women include Marlene Pieterse, the founder and principal of Stageworld Theatre School, and Deidre Jones, mother and co-founder of The Hope Jones Foundation. These and other women inspired her to direct and produce the short documentary film sharing their poignant and inspiring stories. Not only does it provide these women with a platform to share their stories, it also provides the audience with the opportunity to be challenged and inspired, she said. Warner hopes that her own story, of overcoming rape, is one of them. The other stories cover topics spanning physical disability, the role of community upliftment, self confidence and theatre in Port Elizabeth. Warner said she was proud that the film had been an Eastern Cape project from pre-production to post production. I pitched the idea to the Department of Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture and was thrilled to have them on board, and Jono was a blast to work with. The screening of Lattes and Love is at 7pm on Thursday. Seats are limited so tickets must be arranged ahead of time, from Warner at cayly@byrdandbean.com. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share