BAD MONEY: A man holds bond notes released by the Zimbabwe Reserve Bank yesterday Picture: AFP Zimbabwe yesterday started issuing bond notes, its own currency equivalent to the US dollar, in a bid to ease critical cash shortages, but the move sparked fears of a return to hyper inflation. The crisis-hit country has used multiple foreign currencies, including the greenback, since 2009 after a rate of inflation that peaked at 500 billion percent rendered the Zimbabwe dollar unusable. The introduction of two and five bond notes into circulation follows the issuing of bond coins over a year ago to ease shortages of change in smaller denominations. The country has experienced a severe shortage of US dollar bank notes in recent months, which prompted President Robert Mugabe s government to print what Zimbabweans have dubbed surrogate money . The government is only treating the symptoms without attending to the problems, and it s not going to solve anything, Antony Hawkins, an economist at the University of Zimbabwe s Business School, said. The problem is we are not earning enough foreign currency and bond notes are not going to solve that. It will make the situation worse. There is a saying that bad money drives away good money , and that is what s going to happen. The Reserve Bank has launched a media advertising blitz trying to allay people s fears, saying retailers and businesses have agreed to accept the bond notes. Zimbabweans say they have no choice but to accept the pseudo currency. But even as Lovemore Chitongo,40, a kerbside shoe salesman, accepted payments in bond notes and coins yesterday, he remained sceptical. There is no way the bond note will be equal to the US dollar. The market will determine the exchange rate, he said. Chitongo himself was charging$20 for a pair of shoes but 25 in bond notes. He would use the difference to buy cash on the black market, he said. The introduction of bond notes stoked fears of fuel shortages over the past week and queues surfaced at some petrol stations. The government sought to calm panicking motorists, saying the country has enough fuel stocks. We wish to assure the nation that there is no basis for alleging that the country will go dry in terms of fuel supply, it said. Depositors would be limited to a maximum withdrawal of $150(R2 060) a week. The 2009 switch to foreign currencies saw relative economic stability before the economy began to falter again as government policies deterred investors. Those businesses that have weathered Zimbabwe s successive economic storms are grinding to a halt as the government repeatedly fails to pay soldiers and civil servants on time. The introduction of the bond notes has also stirred anger that has erupted into street protests. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share