Major-General Dawie Rabie File picture: Eugene Coetzee / The Herald A controversial Nelson Mandela Bay policeman who returned from suspension less than a month ago has served his bosses with an urgent interdict from the Labour Court in a bid to stop his transfer. Earlier this week, Mount Road cluster commander Major-General Dawie Rabie served the police provincial head office with an interdict to halt his move to the neighbouring Motherwell cluster. According to several police officials, Rabie was given a notice on November 3 by provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga to report to the Motherwell cluster as its new commander which he failed to do. While Rabie s transfer has now been put on ice, Ntshinga s office remains tight-lipped about the interdict, or if they would challenge it. Ntshinga s spokeswoman, Colonel Sibongile Soci, said: The matter is sub judice and cannot be discussed with the media. Soci declined to elaborate or answer further queries except to say that issues regarding promotions and transfers were matters between the employer and employee. The Port Elizabeth Labour Court yesterday confirmed an interdict had been issued and the matter set down to be heard on December 9. Rabie declined to comment. Officials at Rabie s office, however, said he was carrying on with work as if nothing has changed. Other officials lashed out, stating that Rabie himself had transferred people last year for the same reason service delivery as he was being told to move. The SA Police Union (Sapu) said it was aware of the transfers and was monitoring the situation. Rabie recently returned to work after a three-month suspension linked to a family domestic violence case in July. He was cleared of the charges when his family declined to proceed with the case, but while under suspension several allegations about the irregular promotions of staff working under him emerged. Rabie is still under investigation with regard to these allegations. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share