GREAT FORM: High-scoring left-hander Lesiba Ngoepe is one of the players the Warriors have high hopes for after his form so far in the Sunfoil Series. Picture: RICHARD HUGGARD We can go all the way, says captain Harmer Warriors captain Simon Harmer believes his team have what it takes to win the Sunfoil Series cricket competition this season. Harmer was speaking after his team played themselves right back into contention for honours with an impressive victory over the Knights at St George s Park on Sunday. While the other franchises had to settle for draws at the weekend, the Warriors collected their second win of the campaign and have set themselves up for the home straight when the competition resumes on January 5. The Titans top the table at the halfway mark with 59.74 points with the Knights second on 55.20. The Warriors are third, fewer than five points off the leaders on 54.80. In terms of setting ourselves up for the rest of the competition and the way the other results went, it was a big victory for us, especially with the Knights being top of the table.&#8221; And to have beaten the Titans who are also sitting above us on the table is nice going into the b re a k , Harmer said yesterday. It has given our guys a lot of belief. They know now that teams are not untouchable and that we are good enough to beat anybody in the country and ultimately win the competition.&#8221; We don t want to get ahead of ourselves as there is still a lot of cricket to be played, but it s nice to see a lot of the players sort of put their hands up especially in this last game with a guy like Anrich Nortje. The young fast bowler took six wickets in the first innings against the Knights and three crucial scalps late in the second dig with the opposition trying to hold out for a draw and with bad light fast approaching. He s been waiting for another opportunity ever since his last game at the end of last season when he took a 6-fer in the second innings, Harmer said. That shows us that the depth is there and that as a franchise we are doing the right things. Another player who has been impressive is lefthander Lesiba Ngoepe, who made and 70 and 71 against the Knights. Ngoepe s lowest score for the Warriors is a duck and other than that his next lowest score is 46. He has done incredibly well. He s an exciting young player. He plays with a lot of intent.&#8221; He likes to be positive and he s been a great addition to the Warr iors. The Warriors had a session with well-known life coach Myan Subrayan yesterday in preparation for the T20 Challenge, which starts on Saturday. Their first match is against the Dolphins in Durban on Sunday. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share