Die Eden Projek leader Jaqui Gradwell Picture: YouTube video screengrab Plans for a controversial whites-only settlement near Willowmore have suffered a setback but Die Eden Projek leader Jaqui Gradwell insists his dream will be realised in time for Christmas. The initial deal for the Orania-style enclave at Alberts Park farm, on the outskirts of the Baviaanskloof, fell through, but Gradwell said 14 farms across the country more suited to the group s needs had been identified. There was a shortlist of other farms in the vicinity of the original Willowmore location. The project is not dead. In fact, it is very far from dead, a smiling Gradwell said. If all goes according to plan, we could be moving onto our new land within the next few weeks. On arrival at the Uniondale Caravan Park, where Gradwell lives with his wife and three children, Gradwell, 55, was found sitting in a camping chair outside the large tent the family lives in. According to workers at the aloe processing factory next door, the family has been there for about three weeks. Gradwell said the enclave would revolve around a white, Afrikaans, Christian culture and no other races would be allowed. Our main focus is the safety of our own people and the preservation of our culture, he said. We seldom see white people killing other white people, and that is why we feel an exclusively white community would be safer. On top of that, we see our culture being suppressed. In schools, our children are not taught the history of our ancestors, so we must take that upon ourselves. The idea of Die Eden Projek first dawned on Gradwell while he was working overseas. Originally from the Waterberg region in Limpopo, he worked around the country as a building contractor before living in the UK and US for about a decade. Even in America, I faced hatred because I was a white South African, and there I decided that I needed to come home and create something for my own people, he said. The Alberts Park deal would have cost R7.4-million for more than 2 000ha of land. But the deal did not go through as the contract included certain penalties Gradwell was not comfortable with. According to landowner Willem Swanepoel, the deal collapsed when Gradwell failed to pay a R200 000 guarantee to secure the property. For me it was a simple business transaction. I had land to sell, and they were interested in buying it, Swanepoel said. But, like in any business, some deals fall through. Willowmore region councillor Ewald Loock said he was unsure if Die Eden would ever be established in the area for a number of reasons. First off, land around here is expensive, Loock said. [Then], once they purchase the land, they have to look at zoning permits. If they want to use it for any purpose other than what it is zoned for, they have to start a new registration process. If they plan on developing a settlement larger than four hectares, they have to submit environmental impact assessments. That opens them up to public participation meetings. On top of that, water is scarce in this region, and the municipality will have to sign off on their infrastructure development, Loock said According to Gradwell, other factors had also influenced the decision. We realised the land was too big and too expensive for our initial plans, he said. At the time, we had 800 members, each with their own family, who wanted to buy into Die Eden. But bad publicity in the media led to some trust issues among our members, so we ve had to scale the project down to a number we can manage and a group of people we can trust. Bertus Volschenk, 52, one of the original investors in Die Eden Projek, moved from Gauteng to live at the enclave. However, when the deal stalled, he claimed his money back from Gradwell and was happy to settle down in Willowmore with his wife and three children. For us, it was never about race, Volschenk said. We lived in Gauteng and saw people being killed on a daily basis, and we were looking for a safer alternative. We heard about Die Eden, thought this was a good opportunity and paid an initial fee of R5 000. Volschenk started a small workshop and panel-beating business in Willowmore when he received his R5 000 back. In the end, I lost nothing and I feel my family is safe. So I got what I came for, even though it took an unexpected turn. Die Eden Projek would have included infrastructure, healthcare, education and industry. Gradwell conceded the initial plan for a community of 40 000 people was not immediately possible . Asked what he thought about being branded a racist, he said: I prefer to be called a patriot, but the meaning of the word has been twisted to mean something negative. He denied he was the leader of a cult, saying: If they want to call Christianity a cult, then so be it. WATCH: Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share