Mark Alexander Picture: Ashley Vlotman/Gallo Images MPs press rugby boss on relationship with Coetzee, but Alexander stalls South African Rugby Union (Saru) president Mark Alexander has refused to publicly back Springbok coach Allister Coetzee before a committee in parliament saying the matter will be discussed next month when Saru meets to discuss the team s performance this year. The Springboks have had a dismal season and Alexander admitted that not blooding new players has caught up with us and that we need to turn this boat around . He said Saru would hold a conference next month to create a blueprint that would outline the standard conditioning that would be required for players in the various teams. The 2016 season review set for December 13 would also include a coaching review and a review of the policy for fielding players coming from overseas. Alexander said following the review overseas players were likely to be the exception. Several MPs asked Alexander whether he still had confidence in Coetzee s coaching. National Freedom Party member Mandlenkosi Mabika questioned why the messages coming from the coach and captain were so different. The coach sounds lost and confused not knowing what to do Mabika said. DA MP Solly Malatsi asked: Does the leadership still have confidence in the coach? Has anyone spoken to the players to find out if they still have confidence in the coach? But Alexander did not answer, saying: We have the review on the 13th. We can t have the review of a coach discussed publicly. Committee chair- woman Beauty Dlulane said that sometimes when you have a new coach you see what is happening now. Sometimes you do lose but not this way. Alexander said the team had also been decimated by 27 injuries over the season. Saru and six rugby unions had been invited to parliament to update them on transformation in the sport. The Border Rugby Union and the Griffons Rugby Union did not arrive, providing no apologies. Alexander said the Springboks had met and exceeded the government s target of 35% black players, with 40%, but more could be done. Griquas senior vice-president Monte Engelbrecht told the committee that with 11 players of colour in the main squad the union was very happy with where it was. Free State rugby deputy president Jerry Segwaba said there was still some transformation work to be done at board level, with 60% white members and 40% black. Leopards chief executive Andries de Kock said their senior team only included 17% black players. Western Province president Theo Wakefield said about 35% to 40% of professional players in the teams were players of colour. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share