Brice Decaux and Taryn Germshuys with a Hendrick&#8217;s colada made with gin, coconut cream, coconut and mint Picture: Salvelio Meyer Isango Gate in Summerstrand pulled out all the stops for a glitzy cocktail shindig at which they launched their new dinner menu earlier this month. The five-star boutique hotel and spa on the beachfront pooled the talents of their executive chef, Clinton Nimmo, who conceptualised the dishes, and craft cocktail specialists Honeybox, who came up with clever drinks to pair with each course. Guests at the lively event were treated to sample portions of three starters, three mains and three desserts from the new menu while Paris-born Brice corr Decaux, Honeybox s chief mixologist, designed the classy cocktails for each course. Brice and his partner, Taryn Germshuys, started their fun new venture in her home city having both worked in the hospitality industry overseas. The party on November 12 saw tempting starters such as crumbed prawns with sweet chilli aioli and ratatouille and halloumi with fresh herbs and deep-fried capers served. Another highlight from the starter menu was the springbok carpaccio on toasted cranberry bread with Isango Gate s own home-made chutney. For the mains, guests feasted on taster portions of calamari glazed with tarragon vinegar served with egg noodles and stirfry veggies. Another hit was the brandy-flamb ed beef topped with herb-and-garlic butter. Dessert-wise the new menu includes such delights as a banoffee pancake with toffee custard, and the most darling little cherry and chocolate ganache tartlets. Sales and marketing manager Robyn Dougans said the menu was created to reflect fresh and modern cuisine characterised by some exciting and bold new flavours&#8230; upmarket dishes to appeal to everyone s taste . Standout cocktails included Brice s savoury Hendrick s colada, a sophisticated take on the classic pi a colada but made with gin, cucumber and coconut milk; as well as a banana and spiced rum Old Fashioned with the quirky (but flavour-wise, spot on) addition of Old Brown. The launch was MC d by Neil Barker while Dani Roberts and DJ Skulla let rip with some cool tunes, turning the pool area into a luxury party pad for the night. Once a private home, Isango Gate was transformed into an elegantly-styled boutique hotel six years ago. Isango Gate s Pendu Penda Restaurant, which apparently means together in our house in Shona, is also open to guests who are not staying over. Isango Gate is at 23 Bournemouth Street. Restaurant bookings are on (041) 811-2225. Picture: Salvelio Meyer Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share