Hello my darlings, me again. As cold, wet and windy as it was, Port Elizabeth was abuzz with activity last weekend. But you know, your favourite umgosi, yours truly, Skinnerbek, never misses out on an opportunity for free food and drinks. In these times we are living in, who can honestly blame me? On Friday night I put on my fanciest frock and headed out to the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber banquet held at the Boardwalk Convention Centre. Everyone was dressed to the nines, but one fun touch was the photo booth where people got to take not-so-serious pictures. The usual suspects were in attendance but I must say, Uitenhage Despatch Development Initiative CEO Patricia Dlamini looked absolutely gorgeous in a black sequined dress. However, it was a case of seeing double for two other guests as GMSA corporate communications manager Gishma Johnson and another woman showed up wearing the same dress. Who wore it best? Thankfully, they both looked beautiful regardless. On Saturday night, Isango Gate Boutique Hotel and Honeybox hosted a menu launch and cocktail party. The host with the most was Oracle Media CEO Neil Barker and, I must say, it was a well-attended event and people seemed to enjoy the food and cocktail pairing. Mixologist Brice Decaux s cocktails seemed to agree with everyone I can t tell you how many people I saw going back for more. Driving around minding my own business, I was surprised to see Liquid Lounge in Central is up and running again. If you recall, the club was owned by cricket star Lonwabo Tsotsobe and former rugby player Thando Manana. Hopefully this time, the club won t close before letting the masses jive one more time. On Monday morning, I headed to our harbour for the Waterfront Boat Cruises launch. Nelson Mandela Bay municipality s director of economic development Anele Qaba was his usual flamboyant self, wearing a tight pair of pants with an even tighter blazer. However, the weather was not so great as we planned on going out to sea no one wanted to be shark food! I believe congratulations are in order for DA councillor Andrew Whitfield who recently got engaged to longtime girlfriend Kate Gluckman. Looks like we might see another DA wedding after Athol Trollip s one. Until next time, darlings. Ciao for now! Guests, from left, Bridgette Gasa, Thozela Ponoshe, and Patricia Dlamini at the NMBBC banquet Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Kay Hardy, left, Andrew van Wyk and Marlene Louw attended the NMBBC banquet Picture: Fredlin Adriaan Ryan and Vernoil Campher attended the launch of the book &#8216;The Disruptors&#8217; at GFI Art gallery with their little one Picture: supplied Sandi Krige, left, Jono Burton and Trish Sutherland attended &#8216;The Disruptors&#8217; book launch Picture: supplied Keesha Louis at the Harlequins vs Progress rugby final at the Dispatch Rugby field Picture: Brian Witbooi Friends, from left, Chante Wilson, Angus Scheepers, Berolene Pulle and Dawn Fleurs Picture: Brian Witbooi Knowledge Mathabata, Zoleka Magingxa, centre, and Lilitha Magingxa watched the &#8216;Smash It&#8221; world record attempt at the NMB Stadium Picture: Brian Witbooi Faye, Hyram and Matthew Muller showing support at the Mandela Bay Stadium last weekend Picture: Brian Witbooi Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share