SKILLS ENHANCEMENT: Lions bowling whiz Eddie Leie helps youngsters at the Loxion Kulca coaching clinic at St George s Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI The third Loxion Kulca Player Interaction, hosted by EP Cricket, alongside the Warriors and the bizhub Highveld Lions, was a great success. The Loxion Kulca evening aims to engage and enhance the players in development cricket clubs in the townships around Nelson Mandela Bay. Those in attendance, on Thursday night, included coaches from hubs and the Bay s Centres of Excellence, the Choppa Cricket Academy, United Brothers of Zwide, Jendamark United Cricket Club of New Brighton, the EP women s side, the U19 women s squad and various youngsters involved under EP Cricket s bursary scheme. Last year, we started the event as just a bridge between the players and the children, EP Cricket coaching manager Christo Esau said. This year, we ve gone further, engaging the children and the players with cricket. It s been fantastic having the players coming in and sharing their tips and skills, Esau said. Among the players in attendance were Warriors batsmen Lesiba Ngoepe, Lions batsman Mangaliso Mosehle and Lions bowler Eddie Leie. The evening started at the St George s Park indoor cricket nets, with a welcome by Esau. This was followed by a breakaway session where Mosehle gave some helpful batting tips. Next up in the net was Leie, who shared his expertise on powerful and effective bowling. Leie said applying pressure with the ball had helped him collect wickets. Whenever you have the ball in hand, you can put a batsman under pressure. Remember, the element of surprise lies with the bowler, so constantly apply pressure, he said. Warrior Ngoepe then gave some powerful batting pointers to those in attendance. He emphasised the importance of drills for youngsters to reach their full potential. Drills better your skills as a batsman and constantly practising will inevitably result in a much better performance, he said. EP Cricket chief executive Mark Williams concluded the evening by saying he was excited about the growth of the Loxion Kulca initiative. Whatever we throw, we throw at our young cricketers and growing players and it s always going to add value to them and their potential. It is not about the thousands we can attract, but the keen ones who use this opportunity, Williams said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share