GREAT FORM: Warriors bowler Basheer Walters during day four of their Sunfoil Series match against the Knights at St George s Park yesterday Picture: EUGENE COETZEE The Warriors maintained their winning record at St George s Park this season by beating the Knights by 107 runs during a dramatic final session of their Sunfoil Series match yesterday. With bad light fast approaching in the final throws of the last day, Basheer Walters and Anrich Norjte stepped up to the plate for the home team to nip out the final four wickets required for a deserved victory. When the dust had settled, they had shared seven wickets between them and taken the Warriors to their second consecutive win in Port Elizabeth this season after the team beat the Titans in convincing fashion last month. Entering the final session of play, the Knights, thanks mainly to a splendid hundred from captain Theunis de Bruyn, looked as though they may hold out for a fighting draw. But Walters, who took four for 85, and Nortje (3/54) took the final four wickets in the evening session to bowl the Knights out for 289 much to the delight of their teammates. Set a sizeable 397 to win, the Knights had reached 260 for six wickets at tea yesterday, still a long 137 runs shy of their massive target. The Knights would have been entertaining thoughts of a possible draw at that stage. But when Robin Peterson (15) was caught and bowled by Nortje and Tumelo Bodibe (25) fell to the same bowler, all those thoughts had dissipated. Walters then bowled Duanne Olivier for a first-ball duck while Nortje wrapped matters up with the wicket of Shadley van Schalkwyk (6), caught at cover by Eddie Moore. Earlier, De Bruyn was finally out shortly before tea for a well-played 108 (210 balls, 17 fours ) during a five-hour stay at the crease. His was the third Knights wicket to fall during the afternoon session with the other two being Rudi Second (31) and Marchant de Lange (27). Walters bowled De Bruyn after having Second caught at first slip by Colin Ackermann. Harmer accounted for Marchant de Lange who played a cavalier innings off 28 balls. Earlier in the day, the Knights lost the big wicket of David Miller (28) but that was the only damage they suffered to their to their batting order during an extended period when 37 overs were bowled. The Knights started the day on 43 for two, still 354 runs adrift but determined to keep the Warriors attack at bay for as long as it took. Miller and De Bruyn did just that as they saw off 20 overs for the larger part of the morning session. But their 67-run partnership for the third wicket was broken when Miller struck an Aya Gqamane delivery into the covers only to be caught by Moore. He batted for 102 minutes, faced 81 balls and struck five fours. The Warriors will now shift their focus to the domestic T20 Challenge competition. T20 fixtures are: Saturday: Knights v Cape Cobras, Johannesburg 1.30pm; Lions v Titans, Johannesburg 6pm Sunday: Dolphins v Warriors, Durban 2.30pm Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share