Bafana Bafana head coach Shakes Mashaba is the only man to lead the South African men&#8217;s national team in 50 international matches. Picture: Anesh Debiky/Gallo Images The SA Football Association (Safa) is looking to fast-track the disciplinary case of suspended Bafana Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba and decide on his future as soon as possible. It is understood Safa wants to get the process done by the end of the week following Mashaba s dramatic suspension after the 2-1 victory over Sene &#8211; gal in the 2018 World Cup qualifiers at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Saturday. The coach will face a disciplinary committee for his outburst after the match, particularly his attitude towards the Safa big bosses, including president Danny Jordaan. Footage was captured by TV cameras when Mashaba had a go at his bosses. In his absence, assistant coach Owen da Gama will be in charge when Bafana take on Mozambique in a friendly international in Maputo tonight. Although Safa declined to comment yesterday, it is believed Mashaba will be charged with ill-discipline and for bringing the association into disrepute. His position has now become untenable and the disciplinary process is just a formality, with dismissal almost certain to be recommended. The outburst was apparently triggered by a lack of support from the association as he prepared for the Senegal match. Mashaba, who described himself as a dead man walking on Saturday, still has two years on his contract, meaning Safa may have to fork out millions in compensation to get rid of him. Safa is said to be in favour of appointing a coach who has experience on the continent, should Mashaba be dismissed. This is vital for Safa because it wants the person to come in and help finish off the job that Mashaba started in the qualifiers. Bafana have put themselves in a good position to qualify for the World Cup in Russia after the victory over Senegal, but ceded top spot in their group following Burkina Faso s win over Cape Verde. Meanwhile, Dutch-born striker Lars Veldwijk who was an unused substitute on Saturday, is likely to play in Maputo tonight. The Senegal victory extended Bafana s unbeaten run to 13 matches just two short of their all-time longest unbeaten run of 15 games. That was achieved under coach Clive Barker between September 1994 and January 1996 midway through their successful Nations Cup-winning campaign on home soil. It started with a 1-0 success over Madagascar and ended with a defeat by the same scoreline against Egypt in the final pool match of the Nations Cup finals that Bafana went on to win. If Bafana avoid defeat in Maputo they will edge closer to that mark with their last defeat coming with a C team against Angola in the African Nations Championship qualifiers in October last year. Bafana have won all five of their previous meetings with Mozambique scoring 13 goals and conceding three in the process. Additional reporting by TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share