Luna Paige Singer songwriter Luna Paige will be performing in Port Elizabeth on her national tour to promote her new Afrikaans single and music video Gee My Ritme. Paige will be in the Bay at the Music Kitchen in Mangold Street on Friday, December 2. She will sing her own original material, telling the story of her professional journey in the industry and sharing glimpses of her personal journey. She released Gee My Ritme., dealing with humans relationship with music and rhythm, this week ahead of the tour which starts on November 17. Paige said the past two years had been busy. After the release of her fifth CD, Borders &amp; Beyond in 2014, she focused her attention on the development of stage productions Die Ander Konsert and Korreltjie Kantel. . The success of these productions at the Woordfees, KKNK and Free State Arts Festival motivated her to start a production company, Iluminar Productions. She then approached Chris Chameleon manager Denise Barnes to become her partner and together with the already existing productions Die Ander Konsert and Korreltjie Kantel, they are now developing three more productions. Jonker and Brink s love story Iluminar has now reworked Korreltjie Kantel, a music production of the love story between Ingrid Jonker and Andr P Brink, and will release it in CD format next year. Iluminar also has plans for a brand new production for the Woordfees in March 2017. In this show music and art lovers can expect stories and music by Paige, Pops Mohamed and award-winning animation artist, Charles Badenhorst aka Bittervrug. As producer, Paige decided to tell stories which highlights the connection and disconnection between people, families and the wider South African community. Konnexi! will also tour across country throughout the course of 2017. In the meantime, Luna still composes her own music, tours and performs at festivals and music theatres. In February she released her first Afrikaans single Groot Is Jy for the year. This song was play listed on numerous radio stations and the video is on Kyknet s music channels. The tour takes in Prince Albert, Nieu Bethesda and Bethlehem before moving to Johannesburg and Pretoria later this month. The Port Elizabeth show on December 2 is the final stop. Further information on the Music Kitchen show from (041) 364-1964. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share