Nqaba Bhanga Picture: Judy de Vega More than two decades after the end of the struggle for democracy, two Nelson Mandela Bay political leaders have become embroiled in a struggle of a different nature over who has better ANCYL credentials. They are Nelson Mandela Bay DA councillor and former ANC member Nqaba Bhanga and ANC councillor Andile Lungisa. Andile Lungisa Picture: Vathiswa Ruselo / Gallo Images / Sowetan They clashed after Lungisa made remarks about Save SA leader Sipho Pityana last week. Pityana was at the Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton on Wednesday to rally support for his anti-Jacob Zuma movement. On the same day, Lungisa, in an interview on national radio station UWFM, said Pityana had no struggle credentials. The comments sparked a social media storm with calls for him to apologise to Pityana. Entering the fray, Bhanga questioned Lungisa s own political credentials, including referringto Lungisa as just a Johnny-come-lately , who had only been involved in organising entertainment for ANC events. Lungisa retaliated, saying Bhanga knows nothing about the movement as he was under his (Lungisa s) leadership. In addressing calls for him to apologise to Pityana, Lungisa said he had not been attacking Pityana but was rather attacking the tendency of people who disregarded the ANC s constitution and its structures. Nqaba is just a factory fault of the youth movement, Lungisa said. Regarding the nonsense he wrote on Facebook, it just shows that he knew nothing about us, as his leadership. He still suffers from the 2006 defeat when he did not make it to the ANCYL leadership because of his opportunistic approach and I am not surprised that he supports people like Pityana who are opportunists , Lungisa said. Yesterday, Bhanga insisted that Lungisa only coordinated entertainment for the ANCYL He has never been part of us, he said. I was born in Port Elizabeth and I know what happened here he knows nothing. I have seen people being burnt to death. He was at Bethelsdorp college, not at PE Technikon as he claimed. He knows nothing about Operation Barcelona or Operation Gunda. I was the regional chairperson in the western region and I have seen him. He can&#8217;t match me in politics Bhanga Said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share