VIDEO: Bay designer Jason Kieck s Elemental fashion show reflecting the four elements, such as Earth seen here, last weekend Nelson Mandela Bay designer Jason Kieck once again wowed the audience at his annual fashion showcase, Elemental , at the Boardwalk Convention Centre last Saturday. The extensive Elemental collection of Jason Kieck Designs was inspired by the four elements: of nature: earth, fire, water and air. It also featured celebrity guests such as Ryk Neethling, Dale Steyn, Armand du Plessis and former Miss South Africa Bernelee Daniels, and drew the who s who of the city, including new mayor Athol Trollip. Going into the design process, Kieck said he started planning the fashion extravaganza straight after the success of last year s show, Belle Epoque show. Each element has its own characteristics and my first step was identifying fabric, colours and finding shades and hues that work well with the elements, Kieck said. Kieck said he began crafting the dresses in February and designed and made the garments for each model in between creating orders for customers. In terms of fire, Kieck said it was a constantly changing element as it could go from providing light to a raging fire, bright colours, heat and flames and when it came to air, his thoughts were of purity; for earth, he brought in animal prints, flora and fauna. For Kieck s stunning white feathered show-stopper, the designer partnered up with Mohair South Africa and created a strapless dresses which he said combined both earth and air. The witty Ian von Memerty MC-ed the sold-out gala evening which was nothing short of spectacular with fire machines and trees on stage to portray the elements. The show was held in aid of the non-profit organisation Igazi Foundation which promotes awareness of hematological cancer and blood diseases, and an auction held by the 2 Sisters Auctioneers raised nearly almost R170000. Kieck said the night raised a total of R250000, most of it coming from the auction and ticket sales. As an organiser, I couldn t have hoped for a better outcome. The number of tables increased to 54 tables this year and how we can even do better next year. I m already thinking of ideas for next year s event! Kieck said. The Elemental creations now return to his studio, where they will be on sale at his studio. Earth Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Earth Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Air Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Air Air Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Water Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Water Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Fire Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Fire Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews Fire Pictures: Leon Hugo &#038; Sherwin Andrews &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share