ANKLE INJURY: Kaizer Chiefs William Twala might not play against Sundowns on Saturday. Picture: GALLO IMAGES Khumalo, Twala still not cleared for Downs clash Sibusiso Khumalo and William Twala the Kaizer Chiefs players recovering from injury have resumed full training but have not been cleared yet as available for Saturday s big Premier Soccer League fixture against Mamelodi Sundowns (3.30pm). Amakhosi travel to Loftus Versfeld to meet new African champions Sundowns on the back of a Telkom Knockout quarterfinal penalties defeat against Free State Stars in Durban two Sundays ago which finished 2-2 after extra time. Chiefs meet a Downs side who apart from their Bafana Bafana and other international call-ups have finally had some form of meaningful break after their run to winning the Caf Champions League. Left-back Khumalo (muscle strain) and winger Twala (knock to his ankle) picked up their injuries in the 6-5 penalties loss coming on as substitutes against Stars. They are on checkup and under assessment. They are training but there s nothing declared on whether they are in or not Chiefs spokesman Vina Maphosa said. Chiefs coach Steve Komphela now has two trophies left to compete for in 2016-17 the league and end-of-season Nedbank Cup after finishing without silverware at the country s biggest-supported club last season. Amakhosi bombed out of this season s first cup competition the MTN8 at the first hurdle with a 2-1 defeat against Cape Town City. Any coach should have such hunger [to win trophies] irrespective of where they are. The only thing that gets worse with this one [Chiefs] is that you have to win ever ything Komphela said after the defeat against a fired-up Free State. We were in two cup finals last season and it was not good enough. Now you can imagine if you don t even win a trophy. And the nature of our [coaches ] business is pressure. It s just a pity we could not get the result against Stars. Meanwhile, Platinum Stars coach Cavin Johnson admitted his side had not quite hit the heights he had hoped for so far this season but was confident they could continue their turnaround when they host table-topping Bidvest Wits on Saturday night. Stars who finished third last season are ninth with just a single win in their last eight games and two in the league all season having infused a number of youngsters into their squad this campaign. Their last victory did come last time out at Lamontville Golden Arrows though and Johnson said the difficult run of results was not a true reflection of how the team had played. Stars previous win was in their first game of the season 1-0 at home against SuperSport United. In some moments we have done really well in others not Johnson said. But I don t think we have been as bad as the results suggest. If I look at the matches against Baroka and Bloemfontein Celtic [both 1-0 home losses] we threw away the games completely&#8221; They did not score in open play they scored from our faults we had 60% of the possession and somehow lost. We should have won those games. Wits visit the Royal Bafokeng Sports Palace on the back of four straight wins in the league and 16 points from a possible 18 so far. Stars have lost their last three home games without scoring a goal and were beaten 4-0 in this fixture last season. They have in fact not beaten Wits at home in the league since a 2-1 success in 2012. Additional reporting by Nick Said Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share