PLAYER FROM ALEX: Robin Peterson, who first played provincial cricket for Eastern Province, is retiring from all forms of the game. Picture: GALLO IMAGES Former Proteas, Warriors, Cobras and Knights left-arm spinner Robin Peterson today announced his retirement from all cricket with immediate effect. Peterson, 37, joined the Knights for the 2016-17 season and has played in all five Sunfoil Series matches so far. He represented the Proteas in 15 test matches, 79 ODIs and 21 T20 International matches. One of the highlights was taking six wickets in the final test match against Australia at Perth in 2012 to help clinch the series. This included dismissing Ricky Ponting in the former Australian captain s final test match innings. The former Alexander Road High schoolboy made his first-class debut for Eastern Province in 1998-99. He played franchise cricket for the Warriors before moving to Cape Town and the Cobras in 2009. He has remained a son of the Eastern Cape at heart. It is with mixed emotions and fond memories that I announce my retirement from professional cricket, Peterson said. It s been an incredible journey with so many people who have supported and encouraged me along the way. First he thanked his teammates for all the special memories they ve helped create along the way, as well as all the coaches who have played a role in my development and as mentors . He thanked Eastern Province and Warriors cricket for giving me an opportunity and seeing something in me that I didn t think existed, and Cobras Cricket for the wonderful years I ve spent in Cape Town . He also thanked the Knights for allowing me into their space and for the management at Free State cricket . To the fans a special thanks for always making me proud to represent you guys while representing the Proteas and our wonderful country. Finally he thanked his family for their unwavering support and love shown throughout my career and introducing me to a game I ll continue to love forever . It s been an exciting journey for me and I m looking forward to creating more wonderful memories pursuing other interests while spending time with my wife Portia and son Harper, Peterson said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share