Hotspot Sports Bar bar lady Devi-Leigh Potter, left, and manager Natalie Bester Picture: Fredlin Adriaan The City Slukker was having his hair cut by his favourite cutter of hair when, knowing CS s penchant for a good cold beer, she enquired: So I m sure you ve heard of the new spot in Walmer? Not wanting to appear as though he may have been guilty of any dereliction of slukking duties or lack of general pub knowledge, CS had to be cryptic. &#8221;Could be. Which particular new spot?&#8221; It s &#8230; aah &#8230; Hot Spot, smiled his long-time cutter of hair. They always are when they first open, replied CS, who has also known his fair share of warm to cool spots in 20 years of pub hopping with his city slukking cap on. No, that s its name: Hotspot Sports Bar. Well, the slukker was surprised as he hadn t stepped through its entrance yet and so promised his informative cutter of hair that it would be next on his to-sluk list. CS is still composing his definitive Sluk-it List, the equivalent of a Bucket List the 10 pubs to quaff in before you die after which he may very well need a bucket. In fact, Hotspot is the cousin in an entire four-ball of pubs if you will, all similarly named with the others in Hunter&#8217;s Retreat, Westering and Uitenhage. But the new kid on the block is in Walmer Garden Shopping Centre, Heugh Road opposite the Sixth Avenue Shopping Centre and has only recently opened it doors which the Slukkertary-General and CS decided to pass through a Sunday or two ago. First to catch their attention was the Ben Koppen draught on tap. That s a good sign, declared the S-G. For after all, this is a throat-soothing artisan beer of note and once again proved its pedigree by being full-bodied, flavourful with both a slightly hoppy aftertaste and bitterness which make for good glass-fellows. And at only 23 bucks for a 500ml, as craft beers go, that s pretty more-ish. There s also a full range of other regular beers, ciders, spirits, shooters, cocktails and the like. The pub itself is a spacious affair with a very boozer-friendly and large bar counter around which you could fit a small army of regulars. There is also a large slots gaming area with a large line-up of machines &#8211; that is completely separate from the main pub area which makes a neat, clean change from some watering holes where there s little distinction between the slots and the pots activity areas. Service was also fast and friendly with a constant eye on the slukkers glasses from our bar attendant in case of desired refills. And, as can be expected in a pub catering to sports fans, plenty of super large flat screens all round. All in all, a pub worthy of its name. BEER BAROMETER **** Spacious, with clean design lines &#8211; and Ben Koppen on tap. BOG BAROMETER ***** It&#8217;s a long time since CS has seen ablutions this spotless. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share