Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Picture: Ivor Markman Close to the harbour and a stone s throw away from Port Elizabeth s main beachfront, Humewood and Humerail are the cream of the suburban crop. With homes and apartments worth well into the millions, due largely to the views they offer over Algoa Bay, the Bay s designer suburb is also close to a top-ranked golf course and other attractions. Designed and developed in 1929 by Colonel Stafford Vere Hotchkin, Humewood Golf Course is one of only a few genuine links courses outside of Britain. The course is consistently ranked as one of South Africa s top 10 golf courses. Humewood and Humerail are a pleasant walk, or drive, from Port Elizabeth s premier beaches including Humewood Beach, known as South Africa s oldest Blue Flag beach. Situated between Kings Beach and Hobie Beach along the main beachfront, it is adjacent to Happy Valley and is ideal for families. During the summer holiday season, Happy Valley is lit up with coloured lights. The tourist attraction depicts children s stories and nursery rhyme characters and has recently been renovated. Security in the area has been stepped up and Happy Valley s grassy areas are also ideal for picnics. The various beaches offer safe swimming, rock pools, snorkelling, fishing and other water activities, and is manned by lifeguards. Splash Waterworld on Kings Beach park is also a big attraction in the area, with water slides, a pool and fun activities for children. If the surf and the greens are not for you, you can try shopping at Humerail Waterfront Shopping Centre. The centre is a popular stop for everything from grocery shopping, to grabbing a bite to eat, surfing the net or putting some time in at the gym. Although there are also more affordable homes and apartments in the area, many are large sprawling mansions and penthouse pads that would not look out of place in an episode of Top Billing. Despite this, there is a great sense of community with active participation in the neighbourhood watch and the residential Facebook group proving this point. Apart from being blessed to live so close to our wonderful beaches, the residents really take an interest in one another s well-being, safety and security, Zahn Koen Hughes, resident Buying in Humewood The monthly bond repayment to purchase a typical property in Humewood, namely a one-bedroom apartment with the median asking price of R475,000, is R4,742 per month over 20 years at prime of 10,5% with no deposit. Top attractions Bayworld museum, oceanarium and snake park complex Boardwalk Casino and Entertainment World: a featured attraction on Port Elizabeth s beachfront Humewood Golf Course: one of South Africa s top-rated golf clubs Best in food Finnezz Fusion Cafe South Blvd Cafe RocoMamas Raasoie Mike s Kitchen Upcoming events Hobie Beach parkrun: a 5km run every Saturday at 8am The annual Ironman African Championship in April Splash Festival: a three-day festival on the beachfront every Easter Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share