Christmas is sorted, thanks to OCD. That s Obsessive Christmas Disorder. It turned me from frantic panicker to serene festive lover and it can work for you, too Christmas. I know, I know, but bear with me, please. It s coming. Ready or not. In 45 days. Me, I ve already written the cards, bought the presents and sent off my festive drinks invitations. By the end of the week I will have made the fruit cake and pickles, selected the wine and ordered the bird. Am I crazy? Perhaps, but there is method in my madness. I am in the throes of seasonal OCD: Obsessive Christmas Disorder. And loving it. Now, it might sound like an affliction, but it s not. Ladies, it s the greatest gift and if you re hastily turning the page or already lying in the foetal position under the kitchen table, you are precisely the sort of person who needs to read this. I understand. I used to be the very personification of Christmas chaos; permanently overwhelmed and under-relaxed, throwing too much money at awful loo books and novelty presents, missing overseas postal dates and exhausted from making grudging cameo appearances at three parties in one night. By the time Christmas week came, my reserves of goodwill and bank account had usually run so dry I was a complete misanthrope. And then I had an epiphany one year, as I took down the tree and realised I had barely looked at it since putting it up. The crazy thing was that I have always loved Christmas, I had just stopped loving my Christmases. I had grown so accustomed to focusing on other people s needs (real or perceived) that I was left feeling as strung out and cynical as Bad Santa. Wrap it up early I mulled over how I might do things differently next time and Lo, Obsessive Christmas Disorder did come upon me. In the past couple of years I ve had the whole thing wrapped up, literally and metaphorically, by Remembrance Sunday. Before you dismiss me as a terrifying control freak, imagine a December in which you are nibbling canap s rather than queueing at Pick n Pay or Makro. Visualise, if you will, accepting invitations, safe in the knowledge that this year you won t need to stay at home and clean the house. I decided to reprioritise and reorganise. Instead of being in denial and doing everything at the 11th hour, I started planning better, buying smarter and making very welcome economies. Posting parcels and cards in good time meant I saved a fortune by not having to fork out for next-day delivery premiums or first class stamps. By shopping early, I was able to shop more efficiently and thoughtfully; take it from me, on Monday mornings in November your average mall is deserted. I stopped agonising over the search for perfect gifts as though my self esteem depended on it (which it did) and instead took an executive decision to buy things that had meaning for me and a story behind them. One year, I chose copies of books I had really enjoyed over the previous 12 months and added a note to that effect. Hand on heart, the sense of lightness and liberation at having got all of the presents out of the way means I am much more kindly disposed towards well, pretty much everybody. Yes, it s true that when you are ordering crackers (as I did in October) your kids will mock you and your spouse will roll his eyes at what appears to be temporary insanity. But once it has passed, vast tracts of your brain will be freed up, meaning you can plan the seasonal catering with greater care and have the headspace to feel joyful. Yes, joyful. All I want for Christmas is a select few gatherings, friends and family round, good food, festive drinks and the gift of time. Time with the children, time to relax, time to switch off the telly and watch the tree twinkle. It sounds magical. It is magical but you can share in it the only ingredients you need are strategy, effort and, of course, a generous dollop of Obsessive Christmas Disorder. Countdown to Christmas: the key dates November 11 This is not a western Christmas tradition, but it is becoming one. 11/11, or Singles Day, is a consumer holiday in China and the world&#8217;s biggest online shopping day of the year. If you want to get a jump on Christmas shopping, this is the day to go online and you should (in theory) receive your goodies from the oriental treasure houses well before Christmas. November 25 Black Friday This year s day of discounts is expected to be bigger than ever. November 27 Advent Sunday The start of the Advent season is the traditional time to put up the Christmas wreath. November 28 Cyber Monday The shopping extravaganza continues online as retailers round off a weekend of sales. December 7 South African schools close. From now on the shops get pretty busy. December 16 Opening of the Season in Nelson Mandela Bay, and the start of the summer shut-down. This means that those with a bonus now hit the shops to spend, spend, spend. You have been warned. December 24 Panic Saturday: the last Saturday before Christmas is one of the biggest shopping days of the season. This year, it falls on Christmas Eve. Don t say we didn t warn you. The 12 rules of Obsessive Christmas Disorder Make lists in a nice notebook; boring but crucial, these will be a lifesaver and lend a sense of order to the Christmas chaos. Always include a budget, whether for food, presents or festive holiday treats and trips. Buy your Christmas cards now. If you feel embarrassed about sending them too early, post them on December 1. Even better, design an e-card and send yourself a reminder of when to send it. Look up final overseas posting dates. Put a note in your calendar for two weeks before so they will be dispatched in good time. Armed with your gift list, set aside a single day and buy presents for absolutely everyone including class teachers. This can be done online or in person, but you must finish it by bedtime. You can top up for close family afterwards. Don t feel obliged to buy a different present for everyone. If you find something fabulous for a teenager, buy it for all the teenagers on your list. Buy paper and labels, pour yourself a large glass of wine and wrap gifts at a table. Treat yourself to a Sellotape dispenser if you don t have one. Because you re worth it. Invest in a few spare gifts, such as bottles or candles, wrap and attach a blank label to be filled in as and when. Don t buy chocolates. You know exactly why not. If you are having a party, send out proper invitations immediately (texts won t do) so your card is up on the mantelpiece and in the diary first. Order your ham and turkey early. Sort out table decorations, napkins, napkin holders and crackers well in advance. Run down the contents of your freezer so you will have room to store home made treats that you can make in advance. Call up elderly relatives and friends whom you usually visit, sort out dates now and note them on the calendar. Write down other events such as carol concerts so you can see at a glance when you have a social occasion. Remember your Christmas is as important as everyone else s: enjoy! &#8211; The Daily Telegraph Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share