Chippa United will be out to break their winless streak in the Premier Soccer League when they play Maritzburg United at the Harry Gwala Stadium tonight (7.30pm). The Port Elizabeth side have gone six games without a win, with their most recent result being a 1-0 loss against Orlando Pirates. It has been more than a month since the Chilli Boys recorded a victory in the PSL. Chippa are 11th on the log with nine points from nine games. To avoid sliding further down the log, tonight s game is a must-win. A victory would also be a great confidence boost for the players ahead of their fixture against Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday. Although Chippa coach Dan Malesela has dismissed the fact that Marc van Heerden and Thamsanqa Sangweni s absences could have an impact on the team s performance, he acknowledges there are problems in the middle and at the back. Sangweni is out due to injury and Van Heerden is at home due to family problems. After losing to Pirates in their last PSL fixture, Malesela said his side had been struggling to find a good balance, particularly in the middle. But he said his players were slowly getting the hang of things. Obviously, once the players get to understand each other and understand each other s roles things will get better, Malesela said. Our biggest challenge at the moment is fixing the little errors at the back which are not necessary at times. You need to be confident to play but you must not be careless. A defender s job should be simple. It s the simplest job that you can ever get in a soccer match, because yours is just to mark, win the ball and pass. Finish. Nothing else. Finding the back of the net is also another major problem area for the side. Seasoned striker Katlego Mashego, who has been added to the strike force, could be the player to solve their goal-scoring problems. Meanwhile, the Team of Choice will also be out to redeem themselves tonight after losing 3-2 to Cape Town City in their previous league fixture. The defeat was Maritzburg s fourth loss in the league so far. They are nine on the log, with 10 points from 10 matches. In head-to-head stats, the teams have met in six league matches since 2012-13. Maritzburg have won three times compared to one for the Chilli Boys. Two matches have been drawn. Last season, the Chilli Boys took four points off the Team of Choice, winning 2-0 in Pietermaritzburg before playing out a 2-2 draw in the return game in Port Elizabeth. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share