HARD QUESTIONS: South Africa Cricket chief executive Haroon Lorgat and Faf du Plessis during a mediaconference in Adelaide yesterday. Picture: GETTY IMAGES Ball-shining scandal calls into question ICC standards, rules Fifty-four journalists, 11 of them lurking with intent behind television cameras, had filled the media conference room at the Adelaide Oval yesterday by the time Faf du Plessis, accompanied by Cricket South Africa chief executive Haroon Lorgat, entered stage left. Zunaid Wadee, the security guard who caused some of the trouble by shoving a reporter who would not shut up and go away into a plate glass window, skulked on the stairs like a gargoyle made flesh. The lights were dimmed. Recorders were readied. Beating hearts were stilled. Du Plessis sat down a metre or two from the people who had brought evidence of his illegal ballshining techniques in the Hobart test to the attention of the International Cricket Council (ICC), who had stopped a solitary demerit point short of banning South Africa s captain from playing in the Adelaide test today. Instead, they fined him 100% of his match fee. He said on Tuesday he planned to appeal, but yesterday Lorgat said CSA had advised Faf to reserve his position as regards the referee s finding and wait for the full reasons of his decision before deciding his next step. In other words, calm down. Thanks for all the love the last week, Du Plessis said to the assembled media. I certainly never thought I m so famous that I can make the headlines every day. That was a pretty cool experience. Ha-ha. But Du Plessis was more serious when he argued why, despite being found guilty, he was innocent. I still completely disagree with that, he said. I felt like I ve done nothing wrong. You can look at it as ballshining versus ball-tampering. For me, if you talk about balltampering that s wrong it s picking the ball, it s scratching. Shining the ball is something I think all cricketers would say is not in that same space [as tampering].&#8221; It is something that all cricketers do, and I think there will be a lot of emphasis especially after this incident on where the game is going, what the International Cricket Council is going to do about it.&#8221; I question the fact that whether you shine the ball with a sweet in your mouth or whether you don t see the sweet and it is still there, I think it s exactly the same thing. Besides, Du Plessis said, 90% of the time cricketers have sugary saliva, whether we re drinking [energy or soft drinks], eating sweets, sucking on jellies, our mouths are always full of sugar. It s just such a grey area in the laws of cricket and it s something that will now be looked at. Lorgat promised nothing less: We will pick up this topic with the ICC and I also understand that the cricket committee had already earmarked this discussion.&#8221; It s important that the rules are clear and that they are consistently applied. There s a big academic debate around this. I am personally aware of the pervasiveness of this issue.&#8221; In fact, the chief executive of the ICC [Dave Richardson] was once upon a time in the South African cricket team and I believe he was part of the brigade that shined the ball. It s not something new but it needs to be looked at.&#8221; We owe it to the fans and we owe it to the players that the game is properly administered and all of the laws are applied.&#8221; We ve seen footage of other players in exactly the same scenario. We want to define the rules more carefully, and it must be applied properly. But to label people in the fashion that is being attempted is an unfortunate outcome. That label would be the word cheat. The term cheat has been thrown around and that s something I do not take lightly or kindly to, Du Plessis said. It s something I don t want to be associated with at all in any space. I felt I did nothing wrong. I was shining the cricket ball. I ve been doing that for my whole career, and every single team that I ve played in does exactly the same thing. It s not something that s frowned upon by anyone, not even the umpires. And not even the Australians. Every team around the world shines the cricket ball, their captain, Steve Smith, said yesterday. We ve not come out and said anything about Faf or about how he was shining the ball.&#8221; We along with every other team around the world shine the ball the same way. The same way? Sorry, but what the hell just happened? Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share