The DA may have come out of local government coalition talks the strongest, but it was the fight between the ANC and the EFF that contained the real venom in parliament yesterday. The National Assembly debated the election outcomes, with ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu first out of the blocks. He said the results confirmed that the ANC remained the people s choice. Out of the 4 392 wards in the country, the ANC won 3 435 78.2% of the total wards. The opposition combined could only win 957 wards only 21.8%. Referring to the results in Nelson Mandela Bay, Tshwane and Johannesburg, he said: This led to the DA working with the EFF and other political parties, unseating this glorious movement of our people from governing these metros. The setbacks suffered in these elections are self-inflicted. The message sent to us by our people by not voting in their majority has been loud and clear and we have heard it. We will definitely change our behaviour and posture, including that of being perceived as being aloof, inward-looking, selfserving and arrogant, he said. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said South Africa had awoken in a different country on August 4. On August 11, Patricia de Lille was re-elected mayor of Cape Town, after the DA won 66.61% of the vote. On Thursday, our former leader in this parliament, Athol Trollip, was elected unopposed as mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay. On Friday, Solly Msimanga was sworn in as mayor of Tshwane. And in Johannesburg, we [saw] the election of Herman Mashaba as mayor, Maimane said. To my ANC colleagues, the lesson of this election is very clear: Never take the voters for granted. Then EFF leader Julius Malema gave it stick. He called the ANC disingenuous in claiming that the EFF was supporting whites for supporting DA mayoral candidates. Malema reminded the ANC of its collusion and amalgamation with the New National Party, and welcoming NNP MPs to the ANC benches. You claim we are not fighting white monopoly capital, but who are you to educate us? The country is collapsing! You are collapsing it. This is an emergency. You have collapsed the health and education systems. he said. You have defied the constitution. You are in the pocket of the Guptas. You make nuclear deals with the Russians which will collapse the country. That is money which must be given to grants. He said the EFF would never vote for kleptocracy or for the state violence at Marikana. He also blamed the ANC for rejecting the EFF s offer to hand it a two-thirds majority for expropriation without compensation. On behalf of the ANC, Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba said the EFF had sold out to colonialists, returning to the days of the Cape Colony and the Transvaal republic. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen, referring to empty ANC benches, said that while success had many parents, failure was clearly an orphan. Referring to Cyril Ramaphosa as McDonald s character Ronald McDonald, he said the deputy president had had to swap his happy meal for humble pie. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share