I watched the Kings rugby match against the Western Province on Saturday. My heart bled for the gallant and brave Kings players. These lads tried their very best against a side filled with so much excellence and right up to the end refused to give up. That the Kings even have a side amazes me, given all the trials and tribulations the rugby union has experienced of late: threatened bankruptcy, an ineffectual management team, an uncertain future, mass exodus of players to other unions, etc. I think it is a miracle and it speaks volumes for the character of the remaining players, that they can still field a competitive team! The present, parlous state of the Kings is a reflection of the corrupt and incompetent culture of the previous ANC management, but now that the people of our metro have overwhelmingly voted for a decent, moral and winning culture, it should be reflected in all our municipal endeavours and especially in our sporting teams. Gabe Polsky said: People think sports deliver a message. It s not just about winning and losing, although that s important. It s about other things, too. It demonstrate show it can say certain things about your culture and your society. Our new municipal government will be well advised to heed these words and to get involved actively in supporting our sporting bodies and in particular the Kings, to sort out their finances and place them on a sound, winning footing. I recall many years ago, when the EP cricket team was one step away from total collapse several businessmen (among others Geoff Dakin and Colin Rushmere come to mind) stepped in and a strategic, winning plan was formulated to resuscitate the ailing union. Kepler Wessels was lured back from Australia to captain the side. Within a few years EP was the top side in South Africa, winning the Currie Cup. And our EP folk reveled in the team s successes! One cannot quantify the spin-offs of a winning team. There is just a quiet swagger when ever one finds oneself elsewhere outside of the Eastern Province an indefinable, quiet confidence that spills over into anything from important business deals to social interaction. Culture really is the way you think, act and interrelate. It was Aristotle many years ago who said: We are what we repeatedly do. &#8220;Excellence then, is not an act, but a habit. And we, the Nelson Mandela metro folk, all of us, need to develop in our thoughts and interaction with others, a personal winning habit. We need to support fully the Kings and cheer them onto winning the Currie Cup and Super Rugby competitions in the near future! Wouldn&#8217;t that just be something to enthuse about!-Talbot Cox, Schoenmakerskop, Port Elizabeth Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share