PRO THE PROTEST: Organisers of today&#8217;s planned takeover of Luthuli House met at the Reef Hotel in downtown Johannesburg yesterday Picture: KEVIN SUTHERLAND Luthuli House occupation scheduled for today still to take place </strong> The organisers of a plan to occupy the ANC s Luthuli House headquarters in Johannesburg have warned that they are prepared to die for their cause as children of the ANC. A hastily summoned media briefing was told that the protest tagged #OccupyLuthuliHouse would go ahead as planned despite reports of threats that some will come to defend Luthuli House. Let it be known that we are children of the ANC, one of the organisers, Gugu Ndima, said. Whatever is sanctioned tomorrow [today] it will be in their hands. We are children of the ANC. Should we die tomorrow it will be at hands of the ANC Ndima said. Former University of Witwatersrand SRC president Mcebo Dlamini said the protest would be a test for the leadership of the ANC. They must prove to themselves that they are pigs that eat their own children. We are members of the ANC. We are children of the ANC. We are not protesting to the Democratic Alliance. We are going to our parents. Why should you be killed when you are going home? The ANC always says if you have grievances the doors are open at Luthuli House Dlamini said. Among the demands to be submitted are: President Jacob Zuma should be immediately recalled as the president; All national executive committee (NEC) members should resign; ANC stalwarts should lead the party to a consultative conference by December this year, and The Fees Commission should be disbanded as it undermined the conference resolutions of free quality education. Dlamini said the protest was taking place because the country was facing its worse crisis ever. What more could we be scared of now after what has been happening in the country? What is worse than what is happening to us now? We can t afford to be silent anymore. We can t allow the country to degenerate to a level of a failed state Dlamini said. Unless action was taken, our children and us will bear the consequences of what those in leadership are doing now . &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share