ON A MISSION: Relay EMS ambulances has called on motorists to sound their hooters if they see an ambulance tomorrow. Manning a vehicle are, from left, Solly Luyt, Julia Brits, Anezka van Niekerk and Jannike Hattingh Picture EUGENE COETZEE In an effort to improve road safety during the festive season, Relay Emergency Medical Services will attempt a record group hoot tomorrow at 9am. Relay spokesman Solly Luyt said he and his colleagues were shocked every year at the loss of life and the injuries on the roads around Port Elizabeth. We want every motorist to take a road safety pledge on Friday by hooting wherever they see a Relay ambulance, he said. We will be parked at McDonald s in Humewood. At 9am, we are hoping to hear a fantastically big group hoot from Port Elizabeth motorists. Luyt said he would challenge his Western Cape colleagues to do the same. I am sure we can beat them in Port Elizabeth, he said, laughing. The safety initiative will be supported by community radio station Luister FM and McDonald s. Luister FM s Deon Pieterse said he was delighted to be part of the safety campaign this year. We will make a big effort to get this going on Friday, he said. We will be broadcasting from McDonald s in Humewood and we want to hear those hooters! Each year road deaths during the festive season made big news, Luyt said. I am hoping we can prevent many deaths this year, he said. He reminded motorists to put an ambulance service s number on their phone under the word Ambulance . People think they will remember, but when they are in shock they forget. Luyt said it was sad to see how many people stopped at accidents to take pictures and upload them to Facebook. Just remember this: The time it takes to upload a picture is the same time it will take to call an ambulance. At our call centre we can even pick up a missed call and phone you back. You can save a life that way. He said motorists should also heed blue route markers along roads, which give distances. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share