Christmas tree creators Arthur Muller, left, and Darrell Lee, right, welcomed Mr Port Elizabeth Nicholas Affatt to a charity viewing of Christmas decorations at their Framesby home last weekend P Eleanor Campodonico, left, and Rochelle Fourie attended the capping of EP U18 cricketers at St George&#8217;s Club last weekend Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Dane Jekels, Keshara Bawasa, centre, and Tamlyn Jekels attended Isango Gate Boutique Hotel&#8217;s cocktail party and menu launch recently Picture: SALVELIO MEYER Temba Ncentani, left, and Joash Soobramoney blew up a storm at the Isisusa Concert at the PE Opera House last weekend Picture: LONDEKA DLAMINI Ashton Bay biker Keith Webster brought toys for underprivileged children to the PE Toy Run at Hunters Retreat Hotel last Sunday Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Friends, from left, Fatima Momoti, Thokozile Mcophela and Sinazo Mtshengu attended the first Teetotal Market at Tramways last Saturday Picture: LONDEKA DLAMINI Rudy and Natalie Goliath were among the stall holders at the Teetotal Market last Saturday at the Tramways building Picture: LONDEKA DLAMINI Annelize Botha&#8217;s accessories were a hit at the Teetotal Market held at Tramways building in the Baakens Valley last Saturday Picture: LONDEKA DLAMINI Shireen Salie painted the face of Tamica Dolf, 4, at the annual Uitenhage Carnival last weekend Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Guests, from left, Simon Todd, Ria Todd, Ed Honiball and Linus Serfontein attended the annual Veritas wine tasting at the Garden Court Hotel in Kings Beach recently Picture: SALVELIO MEYER The annual Bay tasting of award-winning Veritas wines was attended by, from left, Nicki Myers Kirton, Cape Wine Master Bennie Howard, Carol-Jean Fourie and Kenneth Masters at the Garden Court Hotel at Kings Beach Picture: SALVELIO MEYER Uitenhage Pool Party organiser Zolani Willie, left, and Danny Williams stuck to the All White theme last Saturday at Springs Resort in Uitenhage Picture: ISOZAMA PRODUCTIONS Hi my lovies, it s me again your favourite gossip girl. After last Friday s Black Friday s shopping madness, your girl wanted to just relax and enjoy the evening. That s why I took myself off to the Comedy Felaz show at the Boardwalk Amphitheatre where comedians like Sifiso Nene tickled my funny bone. Unfortunately, the place was not even filled to half capacity. I m not too sure where everyone else suddenly had to be, or what they were doing, but the PE public certainly missed out on some good laughs. What is it with people who always want to stand out from the rest? There was some annoying guy who kept on interrupting the comedians and was just loud, man. I felt kind of bad for his girlfriend because everyone was done with him and his annoying self. Saturday was too jam-packed for just one person so I delegated some Skinnerbek responsibilities to a willing colleague, who went to the Teetotal Market at the Tramways building. Unfortunately for organiser Nqabiba Grootbom, the turnout was not too great either. Even so, the stallholders were immensely talented and included Bay fashion designer Asanda Mali, who had crazy discounts. Meanwhile, Skinnerbek was partying up a storm at the All White Uitenhage Pool Party at Springs Resort, where the main attraction was Metro FM DJ Joe Man. The poor man must have been cold as he kept on a zipped up tracksuit top. People kept looking at him hoping he would take it off since the sun was high up in the sky. People seemed to enjoy themselves though, for a pool party, at times the pool was empty. Suppose the ladies did not want to mess with their newly done hair. It s never too late to share a bit of juicy details. At the recent Food Truck Friday in the Baakens Valley the weirdest thing happened to me. Some chick with dreadlocks hit on me and I will let you in on a little secret, I kind of liked it! Whether you are male or female, if you are giving off vibes, I will definitely pick them up. Your Skinnerbek is very much in tune with herself! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share