The SA Football Association (Safa) has been inundated with CVs from coaches around the world who have set their sights on succeeding Ephraim Shakes Mashaba. Former Orlando Pirates Dutch coach Ruud Krol s CV is one of the many piling up at Safa House in Nasrec south of Johannesburg even though senior officials are still on holiday and yet to officially begin the search for Mashaba s replacement. Safa boss Dennis Mumble said yesterday the search for the new man would begin only towards the end of next week after he had met president Danny Jordaan and technical committee head Anastasia Tsichlas. We will not rush to make an [immediate] appointment, he said. Given lessons we have learnt we will tighten things up so that the new coach is around for longer. Mashaba was fired from his R500 000-a-month job last week after he faced a disciplinary committee hearing and was subsequently found guilty of three charges including gross misconduct and insubordination. The combustible 66-year-old mentor s running battles with the media and his ill-advised decision to furiously wag his finger at senior Safa officials after Bafana beat Senegal 2-1 in a 2018 World Cup qualifier at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane last month proved to be suicidal. The officials included Jordaan Mumble national executive committee members and other senior Safa employees. The next Bafana coach must have a deep well of continental football experience and must also be equipped with an intimate understanding of South African football its players and its politics. None of the above conditions is negotiable. Mumble said local and international coaches who fitted the bill would be in the running for the chance of getting the plum job. It would be nice if we could find a South African but we cannot exclude anyone [who meets all the requirements] because we are looking for the best coach available Mumbke said. If that person happens to be a South African we will go with that coach. If it is a foreigner [who meets all the requirements] we will go with that coach. Mamelodi Sundowns African Champions League-winning coach Pitso Mosimane and former Ajax Cape Town mentor Roger de Sa who got to the final of the 2013 African Champions League with Pirates where they lost 3-1 on aggregate to Egyptians Al Ahly have also come under Safa s radar. The new man will inherit a Bafana side that remains very much in the running for a place in the 2018 Soccer World Cup in Russia. Bafana are second in World Cup qualifying Group D after two matches and they are level on points (four points) with leaders Burkina Faso who only lead on goal difference. A new coach would have enough time to his familiarise himself with his surroundings before Bafana s World Cup qualifying campaign resumes with back-to-back matches against Cape Verde in August next year. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share