Lionel Hunt is one of two &#8220;Johnny Cashes&#8221; in tomorrow night&#8217;s show Johnny Cash fans are in for a treat as Centrestage brings its tribute to the popular rockabilly, country, blues, folk and rock n roll icon in their show Walk the Line to Old Grey for one night only tomorrow, Friday, December 2. Two sides of the enigmatic, rebellious legend are presented in the show by long-time Cash fans Hugo Kleinhans and Lionel Hunt. Both are ideally suited to emulate the deep bass baritone Johnny Cash vocal timbre and both are superb acoustic and electric guitarists too. Vocalist and keyboard player Megan du Toit features as Cash s second wife, long-time love interest and oft-times singing partner June Carter. The double bass also features as Andrew Warneke gets to play the upright fretless instrument which was so central to the late1950s Tennessee Three rockabilly sound. Devon van Rooyen on drums completes the lineup. The show takes in about some 38 classic Cash songs, including hits played in his famous free prison concerts such as Walk the Line, Ring of Fire, Get Rhythm, Boy Named Sue, I Got Stripes, San Quentin and Folsom Prison Blues. Duets include the likes of the popular Jackson, It Ain t Me Babe, Long Legged Guitar Pickin Man, I Got A Woman and Times A Wastin . Covers done in his own inimitable style include I Won t Back Down, 16 Tons and Solitary Man, while Cash s association with other top country names in their super-group The Highwaymen also spawned new renditions of hits. These include Mama Don t Let Your Little Baby Grow Up to Be A Cowboy, The Gambler, Me and Bobby McGhee, On the Road Again, Help Me Make it Through the Night and Ghost Riders in the Sky. This 1950s rockabilly salute depicting the popular sound of the time during Cash s early tour days is also likely to prove extremely popular. Lionel Hunt, nationally known as a top-notch Elvis impersonator, comes in from his home in Port Alfred for the performance. Buy tickets for the Old Grey performances, which start at 7.30pm, through Computicket at R150 or R130 for eight or more. Further information from Wendy, 082-661-1691. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share