AT THE HELM: Rocky s Meat Market owner Glen Rockman, 48, took over theWest End business from his father about five years ago. Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Quality products and service the recipe for 42 years Continuing an old-fashioned family-orientated business which has developed into an institution for many Bay residents, Rocky s Meat Market in West End offers its customers quality, personal service. The 42-year-old butchery started by current owner Glen Rockman s father, Boy prides itself on its quality halaal meat products which according to Glen are the best meat in town . Glen Rockman, 48, who has been involved in the business for 30 years, said it was an obvious choice to take over from his father five years ago. My father and I worked together very closely in the butchery, he was my mentor and sounding board, he said. He groomed me and helped shape my managerial skills that I use on a daily basis, which set me on a good footing. Crediting his father s influence as playing a pivotal part in the success of the business, Rockman said the personal service they brought to the community ensured customers returned. In this type of business you rely heavily on reputation because bad service and products of a poor quality could close the doors. Because we treat people well and offer quality meats, [we have built] a good reputation in the area. Rockman said that while the business was an independent franchise it competed with many bigger businesses in the city. Their quality meat, biltong and polonies were the butchery s bread and butter, which kept foot traffic coming through the door, he said. We are trading in a very competitive market, especially in this area where the people are not in a high-income bracket. Whether you are buying R10 or R500 worth of meat, our products are of the highest quality as is our service, because we know those people will be back to support us, he said. The business, which is owner-run with a staff capacity of 14 employees, relies on word of mouth as its marketing strategy. Because of our location, word of mouth has always worked for us and it is still a module that continues to work well for us, Rockman said. It wouldn t make sense to invest in online marketing, because people know about us because a cousin or an aunt told them and that is really great as there is no better referral than a happy customer. People who have moved to a different city would stop by and purchase something because it reminded them of home. With no immediate plans to expand his business, Rockman said he did not want to change something people had come to love. I have learned people do not generally like change, so why fix something that is not broken? he said. Things are running smoothly for now [but] maybe in the next 10 years we will look at what can be changed. Rockman said every day was an opportunity to learn something new, like being aware of trends. With the change in seasons we offer our customers specials, at Christmastime it would be hamper deals &#8230; customers have responded very well to this. Rockman said the hygiene aspect of the store played a vital role in offering a quality service. I am very particular about hygiene because we are working with food. He said a clean and safe working environment was very important. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share