Building on the success of its first event last month, Baakens Food Truck Friday returns to the valley on Friday, December 23. The market will again operate in Lower Valley Road, with the fun starting at 4pm and running until 9pm. This community-driven event will see 17 food trucks, tuk-tuks and trailers showcase their offerings in the heart of Baakens Valley. From artisanal pizzas to home-made curries, vegetarian meals and Asian cuisine, locals and visitors are in for a feast of flavours. Organisers Jan du Plessis, of design and building collaborative WERK_, and Grant Foong, of Foong s Asian Street Food, have collaborated with various parties to create an event which they believe will be good for Port Elizabeth and give the growing street food industry a much-needed boost. According to Foong, every attempt is being made to keep this monthly event fresh and exciting. Due to the great demand for quality, well-priced foods of the world, we ve added five new food vendors to our original line-up. We have even invited a food trailer from Johannesburg to join our December market. This will in turn open doors for our food trucks to trade up north in the future. Baakens Food Truck Friday also provides a platform for local artists to showcase their talents, with five live acts performing on the day. Children can enjoy a range of activities, ranging from face painting and balloon making to a pedal go-kart track. The Richmond Hill Brewing Company and Fratelli Foods will also trade at the event, providing bar and beverage facilities. Visitors are encouraged to bring along their picnic blankets and camping chairs and there is limited space available inside the WERK_ workshop in the case of inclement weather. The night market has no entry fee, all meals are capped at R45 and there is a definite focus on a quality, fun, family environment, Foong said. For more information, contact Grant Foong on 082-367-1864, e-mail grant@foongs.co.za or like Baakens Food Truck Friday on Facebook. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share