Mod Ndoyana Picture: Judy de Vega Axed corporate services boss Mod Ndoyana is threatening a fierce legal battle with the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality for firing him. Lashing out at his former employer, Ndoyana accused the metro of flouting the legislated disciplinary process by announcing the outcome of his hearing before it was approved by the council. He also criticised the municipality s political principals for informing the media about the decision before he was notified. Ndoyana was suspended in July last year on a host of charges, alleged irregularities, gross negligence, dishonesty and misleading the council. In a statement sent out just before midnight on Tuesday, the municipality s political head of corporate services, Dean Biddulph, said Ndoyana had been served with a letter of dismissal earlier that day. It was the sanction decided upon by the disciplinary panel which led Ndoyana s inquiry over the past 17 months. The process started during former mayor Danny Jordaan s term. Biddulph said Ndoyana s dismissal opened the way for the new DA-led administration to appoint a fresh face into the critical position. Ndoyana was adamant yesterday that he had only heard about his axing in the media and that, as far as he was concerned, the disciplinary hearing was not yet over. I have not received any correspondence, he said. We are still undergoing a process, yet the politicians continue to make all these political statements. Ndoyana said that because he was hired by the council, it was ultimately the council that would have to decide if he should be fired or not. However, Biddulph said hiring and firing was part of the delegated responsibilities of the mayor and city manager. It can go to council, but for ratification only, which would have no bearing on the decision to dismiss, he said. We are comfortable, therefore, that Mr Ndoyana was subjected to both a substantively and procedurally fair process. Ndoyana also complained that the disciplinary hearing was tainted because the presiding officer had been hired by the council and got his brief from the municipality. I really feel bad about this whole thing, but it means I can finally take the process to a neutral ground, he said. I m going to court and it will be tested there. If the verdict says I must be fired, then I will accept it. I just need justice to prevail. The allegations against me don t hold water, but it seems they were hell-bent on dismissing me. Ndoyana said although he had been sitting at home on full pay for the past year and a half, he was drowning in legal bills of about R130 000 to defend himself. It would have been better for me to be dismissed than to sit at home, get paid and all my money goes to lawyers, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share