St Francis Bay freelance journalist Beth Cooper-Howell takes a look at the other side of life in Woman on Top, her weekly lifestyle column for The Herald I am officially the easiest person on the planet for whom to buy gifts especially Christmassy ones. And it s because I deserve an award for the cheapest credit card purchase that I m throwing in the towel this year. No more headaches and hangovers about my husband s festive stocking and what to fill it with. I ve had it. If I were more done than I am now, with these annual shenanigans, I d be a char-grilled fillet. Honestly, the stress over finding the perfect thing to wrap is my biggest December bugbear. I m ratty, grumpy (more than usual, which says a lot) and veering towards carpal tunnel syndrome thanks to hours spent clicking links inside online shops, browsing virtual Christmas brochures in a cold sweat, desperate to be the diva wife who knows her man like a fish knows water. It never works. I m the girl who becomes the stereotypical maiden aunt, ending up in the sock and aftershave aisles at Clicks following an afternoon of shopping hell, fed up and footsore. The guy is always the last on my relatively short &#8220;who gets a gift&#8221; list and every year he smiles politely at the potted nuts, magazine and bottle of liqueur I dish up on Christmas morning. Some people are just a nightmare to spoil and surprise. Why this is, I don t know. I m a seriously low-budget gift recipient. You re guaranteed a squeal of glee when I open my box of choccies or R39.99 lavender gift set. I have no class, really, I ll take what I can get and if it s edible or spreadable, all the better. Not my Hub. He s one of those chaps you see in car ads the swarthy types who scream &#8220;bad mood&#8221; and look sexy despite having woken up, clearly, on the wrong side of their king-sized, gold-plated beds. They have this sense of prestige about them, even when they wear three-for-the-price-of-one t-shirts from Pep. Well, he didn t know that they were from Pep. Though he probably does now and I ll end up wearing them as nighties. Finding the perfect gift is hard for me. I wish it wasn t, but I married my opposite and it s even more difficult now. Since Hub s taste is more haute cuisine than supermarket takeaway sandwich, I ve started questioning all my choices for everybody even my mom, who loves her Quality Street and perhaps a holiday read paperback or two. You can t let people like Hub spin you into a flat panic. Yes, you love &#8217;em and want to win the gold star for cracking the secret gift code, but there s usually only one person in every family who s good at that and, probably, it isn t you. So when next you start taking out second bonds or hiring shady &#8220;personal shoppers&#8221; from the classifieds, get a gift voucher instead. Or and you didn t hear this from me wrap yourself in tissue paper, tuck some champers and glasses under your armpit and lie beneath the tree on Christmas morning. At the very least, your Hub-type will have a good laugh. And he won t be able to swap you for something else behind your back. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share