The Motor Industry Ombudsman has questioned why he was not informed of a potential critical safety issue by car manufacturer Ford as more customers come forward, alleging their Kuga SUVs suddenly caught fire. Ombudsman Advocate Johan van Vreden said Ford had not reported the death of Reshall Jimmy, who died when his Kuga suddenly caught fire, or the dozen sudden fires in 2014 Kuga models. The National Consumer Commission (NCC) said it had called Ford executives for an urgent meeting on Monday to discuss the allegations around the cars spontaneously igniting. Jimmy died when his car caught fire in December last year and two forensic reports cited electrics as the cause of the fire. One of the reports, completed by the police forensic unit, said arson was highly unlikely and also excluded natural fire causes and negligence. A year after Jimmy s death, Ford has conducted a third forensic investigation which Jimmy s family are furious about, saying it is delaying the finalisation of the matter. The vehicle was first inspected in December last year, shortly after Jimmy s death, and again in January. Van Vreden, who is overseas, said immediately on his return he would take up the matter with Ford SA s managing director. What s worrying is Ford asking for another investigation. Why? Are they playing for time? he asked. Van Vreden said there were two types of recalls a service issue which was resolved when the vehicle was serviced; and a critical safety issue, which had to be made public. If a manufacturer does not publish a critical safety issue, there is major trouble and I take them to task, he said. We must be told of such issues, so we can provide customers with the information on what they must do. Van Vreden said it was worrying that Ford had not notified him of the issue. You don t wait a year to tell an ombudsman about a potential critical safety issue, not when a death has occurred, he said. If they had told us, our experts could have dealt with this sooner. NCC spokesman Trevor Hattingh said given the allegations the commission had invited Ford to an urgent meeting on Monday. He said while the commission did not have its own technicians to conduct investigations, when the need arose it could enlist the services of independent experts to assist with investigations. The commission has the power to order a company, either local or international, to order a recall of a product if it has reasonable grounds to believe the goods are unsafe, Hattingh said. We call on affected consumers to bring the matter to our attention by lodging a formal complaint. Ford Europe s director news operations John Gardiner said: As we have consistently stated, safety remains one of our company s highest priorities, and we take the safety of our customers very seriously. He said Ford was working with the authorities on the investigation into Jimmy s death. It would be inappropriate to comment further about the ongoing investigation at this time, Gardiner said. On the increasing number of customers reporting their Kugas igniting, he said: We are aware that customers have alleged possible fires in Kugas on social media, and are prepared to investigate vehicles reported to Ford. If our investigation finds that there is a safety defect, we will move quickly on behalf of our Ford customers if an action is needed. If customers experience problems with their Kugas or have a vehicle fire to report, we recommend they bring their vehicle to a Ford dealership for service or call Ford s Customer Service. He denied Ford had withheld assistance from customers who voiced complaints on Facebook. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share