Determined to keep the spirit of Christmas alive, Sunridge Park resident Gordon Wearne has not let triple heart-bypass surgery spoil his annual Christmas light display. What started off as an attempt to impress his mother-in-law has become a tradition for Wearne, 62, and his family one that gets bigger and better every year. Christmas has always been a special event for us growing up. I just want to give back the spirit of Christmas, Wearne said. But it is not just about giving people something pretty to look at. Wearne also accepts donations, which he gives to a different animal charity every year. The hard work starts in January, immediately after the festive season, when most people are packing away their Christmas decorations. At that point, Wearne is already planning the next display buying more lights and controls, which he starts setting up around his house and garden in October. This year, Wearne spent between R35 000 and R40 000 on new lights and controls to ensure an even better Christmas Light Show than last year. The result is a magical display with 34 000 LED lights, including a moving reindeer, a tree which flashes Merry Christmas, and a Father Christmas image in the lounge window. Despite his heart-bypass surgery last month, which delayed the family from opening their home to the public by a few days, Wearne whose son Justin, 36, helped him was able finally to switch on his lights this week. With my dad being ill, I just had to step in. I couldn t let it go, Justin said. You can t work that hard all year long and then at the last minute say No . So we stepped in and did something. When you see the reactions on the kids faces, it s all worth it. Skylar Anderson, 9, who enjoyed the display with her parents and brother, said this was the second year they had come to the house and she could not wait to see it again. I have been nagging my mom for us to come, she said. I think that these lights are very Christmas[y] and so nice, and I like that it helps animal welfare. Anka van der Walt, 33, came with her toddler son, Logan, to see the lights. I appreciate the work that he [Wearne] puts in, and he makes sure that the lights look amazing, she said. The lights are even more beautiful than they were last year. For those wanting to spread some Christmas cheer, Wearne has put up a money box at his gate for donations to the Animal Welfare Society. We donate mostly to animal welfare organisations because I believe that most animals are neglected during the Christmas season, Wearne said. Last year, the donations about R20 000 went to the Save-a-Pet animal shelter. Animal Welfare Society public relations officer Janine van Zyl said the organisation welcomed the donations. It is such a lovely initiative from Wearne and his family. We appreciate it a lot, she said. The show can be viewed at 67 Cassia Avenue between 7.30 and 9.30 every evening until January 10. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share