East Cape shines as most private schools record 100% pass rate A drop of 1% in the Eastern Cape s private school matric pass rate was not enough to dampen spirits as the majority of the schools still managed to achieve a 100% pass this year. Last year, the province managed a 96.18% pass rate, while the Class of 2016 dropped to 95.17%. Out of the 560 pupils who wrote the Independent Examination Board (IEB) matric exam, 533 made the grade. The other 27 could still pin their hopes of graduating on re-marks and supplementary exams in the new year. The Eastern Cape also managed to add four names to the IEB s 2016 Outstanding and Commendable list comprising the top 5% of graduates after having only one listed last year. In Grahamstown, Kingswood College s Bradley Moorcroft, St Andrew s College s Nicholas Kroon and Diocesan School for Girls Tegan van der Merwe made the cut. Zaheerah Limbada from East London s Merrifield Preparatory School completed the list of the Eastern Cape s top achievers. Nationally, the IEB results showed a marginal improvement from 98.3% last year to 98.67% this year. A total of 11 022 full-time and 703 part-time candidates at 237 schools across Southern Africa wrote the exam this year. IEB chief executive Anne Oberholzer said this year had been a good academic year, with the IEB exams concluding problem free . The IEB is proud of the achievements of the Class of 2016, she said. With a commitment to hard work over 12 years of schooling, supported by a dedicated cohort of teachers and parents, these pupils have achieved the first major milestone in their learning careers. She said no subjects stood out as particularly concerning. The credit for the good results should go to schools for preparing their students thoroughly. Looking particularly at the Eastern Cape, it is not usually a province that worries us, she said. There are some really good generally schools that put in a lot of hard work, and overall we have come to expect good results from the province. Oberholzer said pass rates of between 98% and 100% were the norm for IEB-affiliated schools, and where results dipped below that, the affected schools needed to take a hard look at themselves to determine how they could improve their standards. Woodridge College principal Simon Crane said he was thrilled with the school s 100% pass rate, with four of its pupils achieving a full house of distinctions. Success is built on strong partnerships between a school and the parents, and that is what we strive for at Woodridge, he said. My sincere thanks go, as always, to the staff of our school who provide the backbone, framework and foundation upon which our 78 matriculants have been able to build this success. Well done to both staff and pupils, Crane said. St Mark s managed to maintain its perfect record for a 16th year, and the Rev Andrew LamontTurner said he was very proud of its 14 graduates. Harvest Christian School deputy headmistress Janine Broughton said this was their third consecutive 100% pass rate. It had also achieved 100% entry for bachelor s degree studies. St George s College academic head Dr Catherine Logie said they were very pleased with the 2016 results, despite one of the 32 matric pupils failing. St Dominic s Priory also missed out on a perfect pass rate, with one of its 44 pupils missing the mark. However, principal Grant James said he was extremely proud of the 2016 class, which achieved 59 distinctions. St Andrew s, Kingswood and DSG all maintained their 100% pass rates. Merrifield Prep also maintained its perfect record, with all 56 matrics passing. Abbotsford Christian School in East London and Vela School in Mthatha achieved their first 100% pass rates. Umtata Christian School principal Nkumbulo Baleni said they were partly happy with their results as six of their nine matric pupils had passed. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share