Businesses selling borehole and municipal water to fill up swimming pools in Nelson Mandela Bay could be slapped with a R1 000 fine or have their water supply cut. This is according to municipal infrastructure, engineering and electricity political head Annette Lovemore. The municipality has imposed punitive water restrictions since December 1, following an instruction by Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane. The use of borehole water to fill up swimming pools has become increasingly popular since the restrictions were put in place. But Lovemore said no one was allowed to profit from the sale or delivery of water within the metro s boundaries. Only the municipality has permission to sell water from municipal systems or natural resources, she said. At a time like this, we must have full control over our water resources. We cannot allow the abuse of our supplies for personal profits. We cannot allow personal good to trump the public good. She said pumping water from a borehole to sell or just charging for its delivery was not allowed. It is an infringement of our water and sanitation services bylaw [and the culprits] would be guilty of a criminal offence, Lovemore said. We are aware that unscrupulous operators are offering to deliver water to houses to fill up swimming pools. We understand the need but we cannot condone these actions because these suppliers are stealing water. We suspect municipal water is being stolen and are aware of a few cases of the sale of borehole water. The fine in both cases is R1 000 per instance or the removal of access to the water supply. Lovemore said the use of a borehole had to be approved by the municipality and permission would be withdrawn if certain conditions were not met. But Peter van Eck, 72, who delivers borehole water in Port Elizabeth so people can fill up their swimming pools, said he was not aware that it was illegal. I am not selling water, that would be wrong, he said. I only charge for delivering the water to your house because I use petrol and my electricity. He charges customers R200 to deliver 1 000l of borehole water. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share