ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe will lead a high-level delegation of party leaders to a meeting with the African Independent Congress (AIC) today. The meeting at the Alfred Nzo District Municipality council chambers in Emaxesibeni(Mount Ayliff), will be used to iron out the demands the AIC put to the ANC when it formed a coalition in Ekurhuleni. Today s meeting comes after the AIC gave the ANC an ultimatum to indicate by December 31 when the process of reincorporating the Matatiele Municipality into Kwa-Zulu-Natal would start. The ANC was given the ultimatum when it went to the AIC cap in hand, asking for its support so as to hang on to power in Ekurhuleni after the August municipal elections. The AIC also helped the ANC in Buffalo City pass a sports sponsorship item earlier this month after opposition parties walked out in an attempt to collapse the council meeting. The reincorporation of Matatiele into KwaZulu-Natal has been the AIC s main demand to the ANC since the 2014 elections. ANC national spokesman Zizi Kodwa said yesterday that during coalition talks, the AIC had specifically demanded that Matatiele be returned to KwaZulu-Natal. When we negotiated with them for coalitions, they put a specific demand and we said let s agree in principle to engage, Kodwa said. So, it s the start of that engagement tomorrow. Mantashe will be accompanied by ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, Eastern Cape Cooperative Governance MEC Fikile Xasa and Kodwa. It s quite a big delegation because we take the meeting seriously. AIC president Mandla Galo said secretary-general Mahlubandile Jafta would lead a 15-member team of national executive members to the meeting. He said when the parties agreed on a coalition in Ekurhuleni the AIC had put four demands to the ANC. These were the reincorporation of Matatiele into KwaZulu-Natal, reopening the Maluti Training College and making it an agricultural college, the tarring of provincial roads and making Matatiele a nodal development point. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share