Man held for six hours after heated argument with cops at J-Bay accident A Port Elizabeth tow-truck driver was arrested and his vehicle impounded for allegedly interfering with a police official at the scene of an accident in Jeffreys Bay. Precision Tow-In driver Rayno Vlooi Barnard was arrested on Sunday afternoon after an alleged heated argument with a police official from the forensic division, but was released hours later due to insufficient evidence. According to police, his tow truck was confiscated after a radio device thought to be a scanner used to listen to and check police networks was found hidden inside the truck. Barnard, 31, spent about six hours in the town s police station holding cells. But he was released when detectives decided to investigate further before proceeding with the obstruction of justice charges as additional charges could be added if the radio device is confirmed to be a scanner. Barnard collected his tow truck from the police station yesterday after the vehicle was searched. Barnard, who posts traffic and accident updates on Facebook and messenger groups, allegedly failed to adhere to instructions given by police officials on the scene, sparking an argument which ended in his arrest. Last month, another Precision Tow-In driver Christiaan Beer, 21 was arrested for allegedly weaving into oncoming traffic and racing with another tow truck on the way to an accident scene on the Port Elizabeth beachfront. In the Jeffreys Bay incident, police spokesman Sergeant Majola Nkohli said Barnard arrived at the scene on the R102 on the outskirts of the town shortly after 2pm. The accident involved a 14-year-old child riding a motorbike, he said. The bike and a Volvo collided, leading to the teenager sustaining serious injuries. The teenager was travelling with his father, who was riding another motorbike. Nkohli said the teenager was rushed to hospital. Due to a case of reckless and negligent driving being opened on the scene, the forensic experts were asked to take pictures, he said.</p> But while the photographer was taking the pictures, Barnard allegedly wanted to load the motorbike. An argument ensued and the tow truck driver was warned not to interfere, Nkohli said. The argument escalated and [Barnard] was arrested for interfering with a police officer. The investigation is continuing. Once more statements are taken, the case will be referred to the state prosecutor [for a decision] on whether to proceed with prosecution. Barnard declined to comment yesterday. Last month, Beer was taken into custody after allegedly speeding past a municipal traffic official while racing a Crash Motors tow truck. He has appeared in court for reckless and negligent driving and will appear in the same court again on November 29. He was also fined and issued with a summons to appear in the municipal court in February. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share