Steve Komphela had to be escorted off the field after the Kaizer Chiefs game against Chippa United in NMB Stadium Picture: BRIAN WITBOOI Coach Steve Komphela was the target of disgruntled fans frustration after his team Kaizer Chiefs were beaten 3-1 by Chippa United at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday. Unhappy with the result, a group of fans seated around the stadium tunnel threw plastic bottles at the coach, who was hurriedly escorted from the field. Supporters at the game said the unruly situation started minutes before the match ended, when it became clear that Chiefs would lose. They said while some angry fans threw bottles at Komphela others banged on the canopy of the tunnel leading underneath the stand to the dressing rooms, eventually breaking it. There was a large group of supporters who started throwing water bottles at him, and some were even pushing and shoving, a supporter, who wished to remain anonymous, said. The police and security then came and escorted him out. The incident didn t last more than 10 minutes. Chippa United supporter Anele Zokufa, 35, condemned the poor behaviour. They starting shaking the canopy because they were unhappy about the performance and result of Chiefs. The canopy was left in tatters after the match. As supporters of Chippa [United] we don t wreck stadium property when our team loses because you are there to support your team regardless of the result. When you are not happy with their performance there are other ways of dealing with it, she said. Kaizer Chiefs supporter Ludwe Bomali, 36, of New Brighton, said he and his group of friends tried to show their disapproval by booing. What happened was terrible. My friends and I booed them to show that as Kaizer Chiefs supporters we condemn their behaviour. We do not support the vandalism of the stadium, Bomali said. Chippa United spokeswoman Nombasa Zini said the club would take up the matter with the PSL. Tomorrow [today] we will discuss it with the PSL and they will guide us, she said. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said: Nobody sustained any injuries and no case was opened with the police. The police were on scene and were able to react immediately by taking Komphela into the tunnel. Kaizer Chiefs spokesman Vina Maphosa appealed to supporters to remain calm during matches. What transpired at the stadium was regrettable. We do not want to see such behaviour at any soccer match, he said. We appeal to our supporters to remain calm and be patient [with us] because we know what they want and we are working around the clock to see to it. We urge [them to] continue to support us. Access Management chief executive Chantal du Pisani said the incident was unfortunate. It was unfortunate, but these things happen. We will get together with Chippa and discuss it, she said. It is up to them to see if they want to take action. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share