Dopparoz marketing manager Tukela Zumani Picture: Gillian McAinsh Dopparoz Lifestyle advertises itself as Kasi meets class: not your average shisa-nyama and this new kid on the butcher s block is the place in Kwazakhele for a juicy braai, a chic drink and cool clubbing this summer. It has an interesting history, having been one of the original township beer halls in the 80s, and now that Port Elizabeth s Improvate Group has invested in it, the clientele can enjoy their beer in a far more up-market setting. Kwazakhele may seem like an unlikely site for a swish nightclub but that is a perception Improvate wants to change. You ll find a bar well stocked with premium drinks: Dopparoz marketing manager Tukela Zumani says Ciroc, Belvedere and Skyy vodka fly off the shelves, along with Glenfiddich, R my Martin and Hennessy. This is an amazing concept that we could have put in Summerstrand, Walmer or on a smallholding in Kragga Kamma. If you look outside all there is to see is potential, said Zumani. It hosts live music and already in December big names like Ringo Madlingozi, DJ Mbuso and DJ Sbu have been lined up to entertain clubbers. Dopparoz has a central lounge with comfortable wicker sofas to chill with your drink and catch the action on stage we watched a talented jazz duo over a lazy lunch and it hosts a diverse line-up. There s also a VIP section, cordoned off to keep it exclusive, with gorgeously deep and comfortable red couches. The inyama section is a cut above many tshisa nyamas, looking more like sparkling supermarket than backyard butchery. Savoury spices make the generous portions of meat a succulent feast and you can choose from chicken, pork, beef and mutton. Picture: Gillian McAinsh Sides include pap, veggies and homemade chakalaka which I can recommend &#8211; but a friendly warning, the chakalaka is spicy! Dopparoz is at the corner of Maqanda and Stofile Street, Kwazakhele. It is open 10am to 10pm Monday to Wednesday, and 10am until late Thursday to Sunday. For more information contact Dopparoz Lifestyle on 062-650-4821. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share