London skills still vital to future of world operations, Google and Barclays say Business and banking leaders have offered further commitments to the UK post-Brexit, as it emerged that growth in British businesses had fallen to a four-year low. Google executive Matt Brittin and Barclays chairman John Mc-Farlane praised the UK s expertise in technology and financial services, saying these gave businesses a reason to stay. The commitments come as just 39% of UK firms surveyed by the Chartered Management Institute said they had experienced growth following June s referendum, That was the lowest figure since 2012.Of the 1 118 UK business managers surveyed, 65% were now pessimistic about the UK s economic prospects over the next 12to 18 months, and 49% expected Brexit would have a negative impact on growth over the next three to five years. About 35% of bosses polled said they also lacked confidence in UK leadership and management s ability to capitalise on post-Brexit opportunities. But Brittin, who heads up Google s business and operations in Europe, said that the company was looking to focus on big trends amid this uncertainty, such as more people getting access to the internet. The UK is starting with a lead in this area, so for us there s great talent in the UK, he said. We announced the intention of creating 3 000 more jobs in a big new investment in our facilities here, but that s only because the UK is so good at the internet that we can support companies in that growth agenda. Meanwhile, McFarlane said there were some services based in the City of London which would make sense for both Britain and the EU to stay there post-Brexit. The City of London is here because of its competitive advantage. That is the reason people stay here. He said Barclays was increasingly focusing on the UK and US markets. In the Chartered Management Institute survey, 75% of those polled said skill investment would be even more important after the UK left the EU, though 20% said they had not received the training and development needed to perform their jobs effectively this year. But only 25% were pessimistic about prospects for their own businesses, in line with levels recorded by the Chartered Management Institute over the past year, while 57% were positive about their companies performances in the year ahead. Institute chief executive Ann Francke said that in the climate of heightened political uncertainty and economic turbulence, the time had come to position Britain as a global leader in responsible capitalism. This should include targeting issues like workplace ethics, inclusivity and executive pay to restore trust and transparency and improve productivity. Fund manager Helena Morrissey, of Newton Asset Management, said Brexit could be a success. The City was successful long before the EU was created, she said. It has all the potential, particularly with our global outlook, our very innovative approach and fantastic talent, to be successful for decades if not centuries to come. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share