It is no secret that the community of Uitenhage and Despatch has been subject to neglect when it comes to major development of the Nelson Mandela Metro. This notion gets multiplied in several spheres of activity and includes, but is not limited to, the allocation of business opportunities, salary scales of municipal workers, etc. This trend of undermining Uitenhage and Despatch is replicated in many instances, with capable religious, business and political leaders from Uitenhage being marginalised and pushed aside into the margins when opportunities come for regional collectives to be assembled. The fortunate few are roped in as a deputy this or deputy that. Further entrenching the neglect of Uitenhage and Despatch lies within the metro model. My assertion seeks in no way to put ordinary people of Uitenhage-Despatch on a collision course with the oppressed people of Port Elizabeth. However, I wish to highlight that Uitenhage and Despatch need a leadership collective of their own, which will keep focused on the concrete and material challenges affecting the people of Uitenhage and Despatch. Great news for the patients and their families. The current makeup of the metro has only sought to marginalise and abuse the constituencies of Uitenhage and Despatch to the benefit of an elite based in, but not limited to, the geographic space of Port Elizabeth. Calling for a break-up of the metro structure would be reactionary and self-defeating to the very cause for concern. Perhaps it is necessary that those in authority, ranging from the mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay to the MEC of local government and traditional affairs, consider responding to the question of establishing a sub-council for Uitenhage and Despatch. By doing so, they will be addressing a few of the governance and social questions that led to the 2013 riots and mass demonstrations in Uitenhage and Despatch. Furthermore, such a move would decentralise decision-making powers and expand the reach of public participation in the affairs of the metro to the towns of Uitenhage and Despatch, thus entrenching and deepening democracy. I am confident of the outcomes to this call now, as all those parties that are part of the coalition government in Nelson Mandela Metro, during the course of campaigning in Uitenhage and Despatch, openly and publicly committed to the establishment of a Uitenhage and Despatch sub-council. This commitment was also reiterated during The Herald-convened multi-party debates at the Uitenhage Town Hall. The establishment of a mayor s office opened for two days in the Uitenhage Town Hall does not in any way respond to the cries of the people of Uitenhage and Despatch. I therefore call on the metro council and mayor to think out of the box on this matter. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share