#NMBFires: The fire has approached Montmedy Road, Theescombe. Video: Mayoral chief of staff Kristoff Adelbert. pic.twitter.com/pYFlzEKWbg HeraldLIVE (@HeraldPE) December 6, 2016 The community of Lorraine and surrounds pulled together on Tuesday night in a massive effort to fight a blaze that destroyed one house and threatened numerous more late into the evening. Hundreds of volunteers picked up hoses, buckets, branches and even other people s animals in an effort to minimize the damage from a devastating bushfire that started in Chelsea and ran along the outskirts of Kamma Heights and Lorraine. One thatch roof house in Chelsea Avenue burned down, while municipal officials said three houses that were under serious threat were saved by fire fighters and volunteers. The total extent of the damage done by the fire is yet to be determined. Mayor Athol Trollip tweeted at about 9.30pm that the MMC for safety and security, John Best was on the scene. Fire teams have brought the blaze under control but risk remains high, he tweeted. Disaster risk management, fire services, councillors and safety officials are assisting with evacuations and situation management. Dozens of houses were evacuated, including an old age home, and various animals like horses, dogs and other pets had to removed from the area. Near gale force wind conditions made it nearly impossible to extinguish the fire that towered over bushes and houses, and in the end fire fighters had to be content with diverting the inferno to a remote part of undeveloped bushes, away from houses. NMB fires Picture:BRIAN WITBOOI NMB fires Picture: ESTELLE ELLIS PITCHING IN: Volunteers try to put out a fire behind houses in Soutpansberg Street in Kamma Heights, Port Elizabeth, yesterday Picture: RIAAN MARAIS NMB fires Picture: RIAAN MARAIS NMB fires Picture: RIAAN MARAIS NMB fires Picture: RIAAN MARAIS NMB fires Picture:BRIAN WITBOOI NMB fires Picture:BRIAN WITBOOI NMB fires Picture:BRIAN WITBOOI Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share