The last test match for the year is set to be a scorcher not only are the Proteas coming hot off a series win over Australia, but players and fans can expect sunny skies in Port Elizabeth for the Boxing Day clash. Hopes are high that the five-day test between the Proteas, who arrive in Port Elizabeth today, and Sri Lanka will draw a big crowd at St George s Park to help secure more test cricket in the future. Our intention is to make the Boxing Day test match a permanent fixture in Port Elizabeth, Eastern Province Cricket chief executive Mark Williams said. We want to take this year s event and show that Nelson Mandela Bay and St George s Park are the best hosts for the annual tradition. Williams called on the public to support the event, saying he believed the first test in any series set the pace for the coming matches and he wanted the Proteas to leave the city on a high, heading into the remaining two tests. The ground is looking good, all our preparations have been done, and coach Russell Domingo comes from here, he said. He coached here for a long time and knows what to expect from the pitch. Groundsman Adrian Carter said St George s had not changed much in the last 100 years and Domingo should know what to expect. Our boys have been playing some exceptional cricket lately and we were proud to be part of the ODI whitewash over Australia, he said. Carter said the weather forecast seemed favourable and he did not expect a repeat of the last Boxing Day test at St George s, when three of the five days of the match against the West Indies were lost due to rain. I know we desperately need the rain, but for the sake of the match, I hope the weather stays the same, he said. After that, I look forward to a massive downpour. Weather SA s Garth Sampson said the forecast favoured the cricket and any rain that might fall would not even be enough to wet the dust . EP Cricket commercial manager Leigh Deyzel said the ticket sales had not been tallied yet. From the stadium s side, we are as ready as we can be, she said. Vendors are stocked, the ground looks good, and the weather seems to be holding. We can t say for sure when we expect the biggest numbers, but day one of a test match is always a good indication. If the game starts off well over the first two days, then we know the last three will be packed, Deyzel said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share