New Year s Day tomorrow promises to be a scorcher across the Eastern Cape, with hot and humid conditions expected along the coast and extremely hot weather in the interior of the province. The SA Weather Service (SAWS) issued advisories that extremely uncomfortable conditions could be expected in the southern parts of the province, while temperatures exceeding 40 C could be expected to the west. Due to the warmer weather, beaches are expected to fill up over the next few days, and the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) also issued a spring tide warning up until Monday. Deon van der Mescht, from the SAWS Port Elizabeth forecast desk, said hot and sunny conditions were expected today and tomorrow, with some clouds and possible rain rolling into the Eastern Cape from the northwest on Monday. The hot conditions will continue to New Year s Day [tomorrow], with interior temperatures ranging between 34 C and 38 C, and 27 C and 30 C along the coast. Scattered showers and thundershowers are expected to enter the Eastern Cape from the northwest on Monday afternoon, spreading eastward across the province during the night and through Tuesday, Van der Mescht said. In Nelson Mandela Bay, temperatures of up to 28 C are expected in sunny Port Elizabeth today, with some clouds and temperatures of 27 C tomorrow. In Uitenhage, temperatures are expected to reach 32 C. Jeffreys Bay can expect 30 C over the next two days, while Plettenberg Bay will reach 29 C today and 27 C tomorrow. Humid conditions are expected along the coast, with very little wind to offer relief from the heat. In the interior, Grahamstown can expect a high of 36 C today, while tomorrow will reach up to 30 C. To the west, Cradock and Graaff-Reinet will be a scorching 40 C and 42 C respectively today, dropping to 38 C and 37 C tomorrow. By Monday clouds are expected to roll in over most of the Eastern Cape, and some light rain is possible in parts of the province. NSRI spokesman Craig Lambinon said the past week s new moon brought a spring tide with it, and bathers have been warned to be careful of higher than normal high tides and lower than normal low tides over the weekend, gradually lessening in intensity toward Monday. There is an increased risk of stronger rip currents during this period. The NSRI urges bathers, paddlers and anglers to be aware of this year s end-of-year new moon spring tide happening at a time when most families will be visiting the coastline and extreme caution around the coast is advised, Lambinon said. He advised that bathers only use beaches where there were lifeguards on duty, and to stay within the demarcated zones between the flags as set out by the lifeguards. Paddlers and boaters can also download the free app RSA Safetrx to their cellphones, which enables them to indicate when they have an emergency with the push of a button, giving sea rescue their exact location, he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share