Monde Tabata Picture: GALLO IMAGES Plans are being made for Eastern Province s participation in next year s Currie Cup, despite the uncertainty of which division the Kings will play in, EP Rugby administrator Monde Tabata said. At this stage, it remains unclear whether Eastern Province will continue to play in the Currie Cup s top tier Premier Division, or be relegated to the First Division. There is also an initial provincial tournament, which usually starts in April, the EP Kings will have to prepare for. Last season, it was called the Currie Cup qualifying competition, which took the place of the Vodacom Cup. The format for the tournament, and the EP Kings status, is expected to be thrashed out at an SA Rugby general council meeting in Cape Town on Friday next week. Being under administration, Eastern Province will not have a vote at the meeting. Plans are being made for the Currie Cup, Tabata said. At an appropriate time, announcements will be made. While the Southern Kings have appointed coaching staff and the majority of their players for the Super Rugby franchise, the EP Kings have not announced any coaching or playing appointments. Tabata said he felt that the turnaround strategy adopted to put EP Rugby back on its feet had been successful. We feel the conference in October had achieved its objectives. It has energised the EPRU leadership at all levels. We have budgeted for next year in terms of it and we believe that, over a period of time, aspects of it will emerge at graduated stages, some earlier than others. I am encouraged by the buy-in. Next year will be the implement start date. Last year, the Currie Cup qualifying tournament kicked off in the first week of April, and the EP team were coached by Robbi Kempson. With the Premier Division team only gathering days before their opening match, it was not surprising that they struggled under their new coach, Barend Pieterse, who took over from Kempson. They lost all eight matches they played and finished bottom of the log, conceding 379 points and leaking 59 tries. It has not been decided who will represent EP at next week s meeting. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share