Flute player Neels Kruger Pretoria pan-flute player Neels Kruger will be in Port Elizabeth next week for the Feather Market Organ Society s annual Christmas concert at 1pm on Thursday, December 8. This annual concert feature a wide range of musical talent, with Kruger playing in a programme that includes four organists Jaco Bosch, Christiaan Carstens, Rina Ras and Albert Troskie who will play festive music on the Feather Market s grand organ. This is a great opportunity for all local music lovers and holiday visitors to enjoy a varied selection of beautiful Christmas music, said Troskie, who expects a big crowd. It is always a pleasant family concert in aid of charity and this year proceeds go the Lake Farm. Organ solos will include Leroy Anderson s A Christmas Festival, Zorada Temmingh s O Du Fr hliche, D Adam s O Holy Night, Kobie Kloppers Adeste Fideles, B dard s Postlude sur un No l and Troskie s own Christmas Suite. Kruger, will perform, amongst others, Crown Him with Many Crowns, Somerkersfees and the Halleluja Chorus from Handel s Messiah. It will be interesting to hear that played on a pan flute! said Troskie. The harmonious voices of the Cantatori Male Voice Choir from Port Elizabeth will be heard in Silent Night, Steal Away, Shepherds in the Fields Abiding and Ukuthula. The well-known Jubelkoor from Jeffreys Bay will perform four pieces: You are Mine, Gesu Bambino, Whisper Baby Born Today and The Lord Bless You and Keep You. The 2016 Christmas Concert will end with a massed choir of 120 voices which will sing four works: Bach s Lord God, We Worship Thee, Jerusalem by C Parry), Joy to the World! and An Irish Blessing. The Salem Moravian Brass Ensemble will play on stage before the concert so Troskie suggests an early arrival to hear the ensemble from about 12.45. Tickets are at the door, with no advance bookings. Admission is R50, while pensioners pay R30 and pupils R10. The concert will start at 1pm and last for about 75 minutes. Inquiries: Albert Troskie, (041)503-7854 or 082-726-9595. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share