The African National Congress in the West Rand Region has called for Mogale City to quickly convene a council meeting and elect a new mayor who can immediately take the lead in stabilising the city. The comment follows the resignation with immediate effect of the Executive Mayor of Mogale City the Democratic Alliance s Lynn Pannall on Thursday. The DA said Pannall resigned because of ill health. The ANC lost control of the municipality after the local government election in August. Although the ANC had in itself obtained the majority of the votes at 48.81% of the votes the smaller parties pooled their votes and elected DA candidate Pannall to lead the municipality. The ANC on Friday accused Pannall of failing &#8220;dismally&#8221; to govern. &#8220;Since the local government elections in August 2016 governance and service delivery have collapsed in the city. This clearly shows the inability of the DA/EFF coalition to run the municipality &#8221; the party said in the statement. It said the DA had been clueless in fulfilling its governance obligations for 100 days. &#8220;As a result the Executive under this administration could not address the community of Mogale on the recent water crisis. &#8220;Additionally the amateurish DA failed to present quarterly reports to the council as required by the law.&#8221; The ANC said it was not in the best interest of South Africans to have incompetent leadership and thereby fail them in delivering crucial services. The Mogale region with an estimated 100 000 people is one of the poorest in Gauteng. On August 18 Pannall gave the DA its first municipality in the province when she was sworn in as the new mayor after winning by just one vote. During the voting in council the DA took the position of the executive mayor with 39 against 38 votes. The ANC retained the position of the speaker of council and also clinched the position of chief whip of council. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share