It is only by scoring goals that Orlando Pirates are going to rescue their season. That sounds simple enough but without their top striker Tendai Ndoro firing on all cylinders Augusto Palacios s side will struggle to do it. Ndoro has been central to anything good about Pirates in the second half of 2015-16 and the first half of 2016-17. TMG Sport looks at five things that make Ndoro the top striker he is: Accuracy speed and physical strength. Ndoro is what many would call a natural goalscorer. He is a player who uses his physicality and speed to bully defences. At his best he is a constant pest capable of overpowering centre-backs over 90 minutes. Pirates have scored 15 league goals in 13 matches this season 11 of those coming off Ndoro s boot. He has scored 22 goals in all competitions this calendar year. Restored confidence. At his lowest ebb under then coach Eric Tinkler in the first half of 2015-16 Ndoro risked not even being on the pitch. But things changed in February when he scored a brace against his former club, Mpumalanga Black Aces. Since then he has not looked back becoming the lead striker at the club. Suddenly, he is the most feared striker in the PSL and much of it has to do with the confidence gained by earning constant game time and blasting in goals while doing it. Instinctive finishing. Ndoro is the deadliest finisher in the PSL at the moment. His 22 goals for Pirates this year are proof of that. He does have a frustrating tendency to lose interest in a game when things are not going his way. He has at times also been let down by lack of service from his creative teammates in the first round. It will be interesting to see how many goals he can score in the second round if the supply improves. Intelligent dynamic movement. The biggest reason for Ndoro s being able to score so many goals in the first half of the season is largely his movement on and off the ball. He s just plain elusive and a nightmare for opposition defenders to pick up. When he is not using his pace to outstrip defenders he uses his intelligence to drift free of them. Ndoro covers more ground and makes more sprints than other strikers and has been doing it in the right areas. Fitness. Since Elsa Storm became Pirates fitness coach at the start of the season Ndoro and many of his teammates have shown marked improvements in their fitness levels. And importantly from a striker s point of view his sharpness and alertness are better. His distance covered and sprints per 90 minutes are both marginally up on last season but he is also proving effective for those full 90 minutes, when he is in the game. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share