Toshiba Corp may have to book several billion dollars incharges related to a US nuclear power acquisition, a shock warning that sent its stock tumbling 12% and rekindled concerns about its accounting a cumen. The Japanese group said cost overruns at US power projects handled by a nuclear construction business newly acquired from Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron would be much greater than initially expected, potentially requiring a huge write down. Such a hit would be another slap in the face for a sprawling conglomerate hoping to recover from a $1.3-billion (R18-billion) accounting scandal, as well as a write down of more than $2-billion (R28-billion) for its nuclear business in the past financial year. Tom O Sullivan, founder of energy consultancy Mathyos Japan, said: This will come asan additional shock to Toshiba s institutional investors that may further undermine confidence in company management. O Sullivan noted that the acquisitionin December last year coincided with the finalizing of a record fine by Japanese regulators for accounting irregularities at Toshiba,indicating that corporate governance controls were extremely weak. Toshiba chief executive Satoshi Tsunakawa, who took the helm only in June after his predecessor began a series of restructuring steps to clean up Toshiba s books, said the conglomerate would look at a strategy to boost capital. We would have needed to boost our capital base anyway because our share holders equity ratio is low, he said. As of the end of September,Toshiba had shareholders equity of 363-billion yen (R43-billion),or just 7.5% of assets, which could fall close to zero if the company is forced to log significant losses. Asked whether Toshiba s liabilities would exceed its assets, chief financial officer Masayoshi Hirata said the company had not yet completed its estimation of the charge. It would finalise that by mid-February, he said. The conglomerate would explain the situation to its main banks and seek their support. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share