THE ONES TO BEAT: This year s Ultimate Quest winners, Siska van der Bijl and HB Kruger Picture: Supplied Mountain bike and road race a week apart If you are looking for the ultimate endurance challenge, The Herald Continental Cycle Tour s Ultimate Quest should certainly get your blood flowing. The Ultimate Quest offers bragging rights for the men and women riders with the best combined times in the 80km Extreme mountain bike challenge and 106km Classic road race, which take place on February 19 and 26 respectively. MTB race director Brad Jackson believes that having the Ultimate Quest split over two weekends would open up the race to a wider field of riders. In the past, many riders were intimidated by the thought of riding both long distance events within two days of each other, Jackson said. Many of those who took part in the past would invariably go a little easier, at least on one of the two disciplines, to save something for the other. Now, with a week in between to recover, it makes it easier for riders to race both disciplines at maximum effort. Jackson said both the MTB and road disciplines of the Ultimate Quest were hard when ridden at race pace. However, if you are not after a podium and just want to finish within your own personal goal time, then most reasonably fit riders should manage without a problem. He said the week in between races was plenty of time to recover, even if one had gone hard in the MTB event. I suggest one or two easy rides during the week as you prepare for the 106km road event. And definitely don t miss the Team Challenge as a leg-loosener the day before. How should riders prepare for the Ultimate Quest, knowing how technical the MTB part is and how the road race will affect their overall time? The 80km MTB is one of the more technical marathon courses in the country, Jackson said, so riders should focus on brushing up on their technical skills well ahead of race day. He suggests spending some time riding in the Baakens Valley or your favourite bike park over the December holidays. Being confident on the single track and downhills gives the opportunity for recovery during these sections, so that one can open up the taps when getting to the next climb or open pedally section. Some of the single track climbs are steep and short, requiring riders to push themselves to their anaerobic thresholds just to stay on the bike and avoid walking. This year s men s winner, HB Kruger of Team Telkom, said the new structure would not affect his preparation, but the event would play a part in his preparation for races like the Absa Cape Epic. This year s women s winner, Siska van der Bijl, is not 100% sure whether she will defend her title, but will be getting back in the saddle for the MTB event. Team Relay Challenge entries are very limited, so complete your entry online. Entries close at midnight on January 27. Please note that no late entries will be accepted online or at Race Pack Collection. Entrants must collect their own race packs and sign up on registration to complete their entry. To enter, go to www.heraldcycletour.co.za Queries: race office, phone (041) 504-7911, or e-mail atheraldcycletour@timesmedia.co.za Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share