LAST CHRISTMAS: A portrait of British singer George Michael sits next to bouquets of floral tributes outside his home Picture: AFP George Michael s death on Christmas Day far cry from heyday as handsome, hedonistic pop icon It is a haunting image, a famous star staring out from the window of his country home as the village Christmas procession passed by life going on without him. To his fans he was the defining pop idol of their generation, to his admirers he had one of the most beautiful soul voices in British pop, but this last sighting of George Michael reveals that he died the death of a recluse. His boyfriend has revealed how the singer-songwriter, who gave us one of the most-loved Christmas songs of all time, had died alone on Christmas morning, at the age of just 53. Fadi Fawaz, a celebrity hairdresser, who had been in a relationship with the star since 2011, said he discovered the singer, whose real name was Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou, when he went to his home in Oxfordshire. We were supposed to be going for Christmas lunch. I went round there to wake him up and he was just gone, lying peacefully in bed. We don t know what happened yet, he said. Everything had been very complicated recently, but George was looking forward to Christmas, and so was I. Now everything is ruined. I want people to remember him the way he was he was a beautiful person. In recent years, the hedonistic lifestyle the singer became famous for had left the once dashingly handsome pop icon a bloated version of himself. During the past year, he was thought to have been battling a spiralling heroin addiction. A source said Michael had been treated in hospital for an overdose. He s been rushed to A&amp;E [casualty] on several occasions, the source said. He used heroin. It s amazing he lasted as long as he did. Cardiac arrest the cause of death according to Michael s manager, Michael Lipman is common among heroin users. It was a deeply sad death for a man whose bravery in forcing the world to come to terms with his sexuality on his terms was widely admired, but who was dogged by the long shadow of Aids. The condition took several friends and at least one lover and had initially forced him to keep the truth about his homosexuality hidden for fear of terrifying his mother about the consequences. Neighbours in Goring-on- Thames near Oxford, where Michael bought a house for a reported 1.5-million (R25.6-million) in 1999, spoke movingly yesterday about his last few months. Outside his home, two reindeer sculptures lit by fairy lights were still illuminated in the garden, while a Christmas wreath covered in apples, berries and pine cones hung on a side door. T he manager of the nearby Catherine Wheel pub, who wanted to remain anonymous, said Michael had been a regular face in the pub, but in recent years his appearances had dwindled. He has changed over the years, got a lot bigger and wore glasses. He was very self-conscious. I went down to lay a candle outside his house with a group and they said they saw him watching the torchlight procession on Christmas Eve from the window. Michael had told fans on Twitter he was perfectly fine . In his last Facebook post, he said he was busy putting the finishing touches to a documentary called Freedom, due to air in March. On his 53nd birthday, on June 25, Michael apologised to fans for his absence from the limelight. He wrote on Twitter: To my lovelies and fans around the world, thank you for all the birthday wishes, I am truly overwhelmed. I am looking forward to spending it with friends and family, thank again, love The Singing Greek ! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share