New move to help patients as families take Bhisho to court The company running the only two fully state-funded frail care centres in Port Elizabeth has offered to extend its contract at a reduced rate to allow for a proper handover of patients. The offer from the Life Healthcare group is detailed in an application for a provisional interdict against the Eastern Cape Department of Social Development to stop it from closing the centres. The court bid is due to be argued today. The application is being brought by a group of family members whose relatives are at the Lorraine and Algoa frail care centres, known as the Frail Care Crisis Collective. East Cape Frail Care, which runs the two centres on behalf of the Life Healthcare group, has written a letter to the court saying it is prepared to extend its contract at a reduced rate until a proper handover can be done. With only two weeks to go, social workers from the department have told families that their relatives will be moved but have not been able to provide details. The families are asking the court to appoint Legal Resources Centre attorney Sarah Sephton to act as the curator for the patients. They are also asking that the court orders Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi to give a report detailing her department s relocation plan for the patients, and that she gives families and Sephton 30 days written notice before moving any patients. Eastern Cape Department of Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo confirmed yesterday that they had finalised their side of a memorandum of understanding with social development and had sent it back for approval. In terms of the memorandum, Kupelo said the Department of Health would not be providing additional medical personnel or doctors to patients who will be moved. Kupelo said they would assist by providing devices such as wheelchairs and hearing aids to patients, and they would ensure that patients chronic medication was delivered. He stressed that Social Development would remain responsible for all persons who are frail and disabled. We will treat patients on an individual basis at state hospitals and clinics. In a newspaper advertisement Sihlwayi yesterday contradicted the head of her department, Stanley Khanyile, by saying the department would pay NGOs R1 700 per patient and use a portion of funding from old-age grants to care for the patients. [The] department will persist in conducting checks and balances on subsidy rates of residential facilities of older persons and persons with disabilities, the advert read. Khanyile previously said the department would pay a patient subsidy of R4 000 as well as 90% of the old- age or disability grant. The department is currently paying Life Healthcare R16 000 per patient. Sihlwayi s spokesman, Mzukisi Solani, did not respond to requests for comment. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share