While President Jacob Zuma accepted the recommendation that there should be zero salary increases for members of executive and judges for the 2016/2017 year public office bearers have had a healthy increase averaging about 5% over the past six years. Zuma determines salaries for public office bearers based on among other things recommendations by the Independent Commission for the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers. Public officer bearers include members of the executive and their deputy ministers MPs judges magistrates mayors traditional leaders and councillors. From 2010 Zuma had been making salary adjustment determinations largely based on the recommendations of the commission. It recommended that he earn R2 367 466 from April 2010 and his salary rose incrementally reaching R2 891 373 from April 2016. MPs were earning R802 873 in 2010 and this increased to R1.03-million in April 2016. However Zuma deviated from the recommended 5% salary increase for public office bearers for 2016 and decided that there should be salary increase of 4.4% for all public office bearers except magistrates and certain categories of the traditional leaders. Zuma said he based his decision for the 2016 increases on the condition of the economic climate which had deteriorated. Zuma accepted the recommendation for 2017 that there should no increases for the executive and deputy ministers judges magistrates and MPs for 2017. Zuma also accepted the commission s recommendation that there should be a 4% cost-of-living adjustment to the remuneration of the municipal councillors and 6% for all magistrates. The president s salary is determined by Parliament. In its recommendations published last month the commission said the proposed zero adjustment of salaries was a as a result of economic distress. The commission said all citizens should be aware of the country s economic situation and make sacrifices in order to avoid economic meltdown. The current economic difficulties cannot be ignored and a significant portion of citizens would be adversely affected. It would be inappropriate for the leaders of the country who play a significant role in the management of the economy to receive an increase while many citizens feel the pinch of economic and fiscus down trends. &#8211; TMG Digital Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share