I love Nelson Mandela Bay. I really do. Not only for the beautiful beaches and the breathtaking sunsets. There is a lot more in this city that, for me, reinforces the age-old adage that there is no place like home. There are times, however, when I wonder if we will ever escape what seems to be a never-ending cycle of absurd politics the kind that offers comic relief to my friends who live in cities where glass jugs are still permitted in council meetings. Last week was one of those moments. Scores of people, mainly from Port Elizabeth and Uitenhage townships, marched to the city centre on Thursday. Leading the march was the ANC, its alliance partners, the EFF, COPE and the UDM as well as the small business sector and the religious community. They came to voice their anger over, among other things, the municipality s decision to block electricity meters in households where municipal accounts are in arrears. In the long list of grievances contained in the petition, the complaint about the electricity issue was certainly justifiable and indeed compelling. Perhaps I should first make it clear that I am not at all suggesting that consumers should not pay for municipal services. It is a no-brainer that nothing is free. For us to get any kind of service, someone must pay. However, the manner in which the municipality has dealt with this debt crisis has left much to be desired. By mayor Athol Trollip s own admission, the city failed to use all possible avenues to communicate its credit control plan and to warn residents of the potential power cuts for defaulters. The result was that, far and wide, families whose accounts were in arrears had their electricity meters blocked. Although authorities claimed that the poor were spared, the reality is that in many instances working class families, drowning in essential debt and genuinely struggling to pay, were left in the dark with no immediate explanation from councillors. The metro would later discover that many consumers did not even know their accounts were in arrears, let alone that they had a grace period during which they could negotiate special arrangements to pay. The poor handling of this crisis fuelled in many communities an existing fear real or perceived that currently in charge is a coalition government of draconian rule. One that is completely out of touch with the extent of poverty in our city. Therefore the march on Thursday was inevitable and this aspect of it was understandable. But as things tend to happen in this city, the politics of the day took over and, in my view, undermined the cause. The focus shifted. The message carrying the legitimate gripes of the poor and working class was diluted by propaganda and misleading war talk. You might argue of course that political marches and rallies are by their very nature, platforms where mudslinging is the order of the day. That is true. It happens all over the world. And indeed some of the populist narrative from the march was interestingly peculiar but hardly concerning. For example, in the petition, the ANC demands that the coalition government must account for hiring Vuyo Mlokothi as the city manager, only to withdraw that decision R -million later. This I agree with. Whichever way the coalition government spins it, the Mlokothi chapter was a massive blunder for which the leadership must account. But two points below on the petition, and with no sense of irony, the ANC threw in this gem: They demanded that the coalition government investigate whether city manager Johann Mettler, whom it first brought to the metro, is indeed qualified for the job. The populism did not end there. At one point during the march, the crowd was told that Trollip and his team had put in place a policy that demanded of motorists who were caught breaking the law in this metro, to go to pay their traffic fines in Cape Town. This means we are back to being a Cape colony where Helen Zille treats us like her slaves, one leader shouted as the crowd cheered. But then came disturbing moments, when the political war talk took on a crude character of intimidation. Where some leaders yelled veiled threats of anarchy, others boldly proclaimed that if their demands were not met, this government would not be allowed to set foot in certain communities. I found this kind of language particularly disturbing because, frankly, it could be interpreted as inciting violence. Moreover, not only is it against the law, but history has shown that the ultimate victims of no-go zones where there are political tensions are not the elite shouting from podiums while living a life of privilege. The victims of such are the poor who are often on the harsh receiving end of developmental and economic exclusion. The more I observed the events of last week, the more apparent it became just how easily some leaders pay lip service to the idea of democracy, only to reject it when its outcomes become a bitter pill to swallow. That this municipality must be compelled to address the concerns of all citizens can never be in dispute. But the prevailing narrative last week was about much more than this. It was to agitate the masses to take their fight beyond the legitimate demand for better governance, to reject the very constitutional legitimacy of this coalition administration. Nwabisa Makunga is the deputy editor of The Herald and Weekend Post Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share