The Herald angling columnist Wayne Rudman gives tips for holidaymakers on the best fishing places in and around Port Elizabeth Fishing at Blougat and Schoenies Picture: Mike Holmes Port Elizabeth and surrounds is increasing in popularity as a holiday destination as it is supported by so many activities. Angling is one of those pastimes that can capture time at night too, extending the opportunity for those who also burn the candle at both ends while enjoying their well-earned break! With four well-producing estuaries in the area from the Sundays River down to the Kromme, the river angler is at no loss. The rock and surf angler is also in second heaven with vast areas to explore inwith both rock and sand surf zones. We have two recreationally active ports that offer a gateway to the bays of Algoa and St Francis for deep sea enthusiasts. There are also legal launch sites in both areas for ski boat anglers who prefer the splash-and-dash start to the day. Some areas for rock and surf R&amp;S (R&amp;S) anglers are not easily accessible and a walk of some distance will be needed. But there are many areas inside the Bay that are more users friendly. Generally anglers want to be in sight of their vehicles as security this is often a problem in remote areas. Areas that are most accessible for R&amp;S anglers are mostly inside the bay; Starting at St George s Strand down to Bluewater Bay and on to the Brighton Beach and dollosse areas are all good day-time spots. At night Kings Beach and the harbour surf are a good choice, with Bird Rock and Flat Rock as alternatives. I can also recommend the banks of the estuaries, but remember that it is always best to fish in numbers when venturing out at night, no matter where you go. There is a good social angling group that fishes on Wednesday nights. Contact Trophy Tackle Den in Newton Park for more information. Brett Harris knows his area well and this could be a good introduction for visiting anglers. South of Port Elizabeth we have Cape Recife and west to Schoenmakerskop for the rock anglers, where vehicles can be parked close by. The Blue Hole out on Marine Drive and just west of the Noordhoek Ski-boat Club has a launch facility open to visitors and the spot known as Malay Pools is also an excellent area to angle for shad and mussel-cracker. The western areas beyond are hard to reach as the beach driving ban put the brakes on that one. Sardinia Bay is also closed to angling, being a Marine Protected Area (MPA). Kini Bay, Seaview and Beachview up to Maitlands and Blue Horizon Bay have vehicle parks and those who enjoy a walk can explore these regions where hard work will produce that fry.The Gamtoos surf zone right down to Papiesfontein are also regarded as among the most productive surf angling areas on offer. The Bay of St Francis has a multitude of opportunities too. The port offers deep sea trips for both the angler and sightseers, so the whole family can enjoy that. There are many spots for R&amp;S anglers as well as those who wish to fish the Kromme. Not far from St Francis Bay, Aston Bay has legal surf launch sites and surf zones that produce most of the time and you have a chance of finding good pig-nosed grunter. At this time of year good kob are caught in most of the above-mentioned sites. The Eastern Cape is the angling paradise of South Africa with these areas mentioned above at the heart of that with regards to accessibility and the necessary comforts too. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share