WELL DONE: Bradley Moorcroft with his proud parents, Jenny and John Moorcroft Picture: Supplied Pupil does school proud with eight distinctions Kingswood College Grade 12 pupil Bradley Moorcroft is looking to put his feet up for a few days after his eight distinctions landed him a spot on the Independent Examinations Board s outstanding and commendable achievements list. The pressure is off now. I am really happy with my results, he said. I am just looking forward to enjoying what s left of the holidays with my friends. Among the distinctions the school s headboy achieved were 99% for mathematics and 95% for advanced programme maths. His other distinctions came from accounting, Afrikaans, English, information technology, physical science and life orientation. His efforts placed him within the top 5% of pupils in five subjects plus life orientation. Moorcroft, 18, of Port Elizabeth, attended Grey Junior and High schools for most of his schooling. At the end of Grade 9, Kingswood College approached him with a scholarship. It could not have come at a better time, he said. Nothing against Grey . . . I really enjoyed it but I just felt like I a needed a change. He quickly adapted to his new school. In addition to his love of sports like water polo and hockey, he also joined the swimming and athletics teams, while continuing to excel at academics. He was elected headboy after attending Kingswood for only two years, an accomplishment he described as a great honour. Looking back at the past academic year, Moorcroft said placing in the country s top 5% was a great feeling though he did not seem too surprised by the achievement. After preliminary exams around September you kind of get a feeling for where your marks will be at the end of the year, he said. That s when the hardest work is done. For final exams, it was just a case of maintaining the good form I worked so hard for throughout the year. He said achieving high marks for mathematics was about ensuring an understanding of the work long before you put pen to paper. [Then] you just need to stay calm and do your best. For now, Moorcroft will be spending a few days at Kenton-on-Sea with friends and also attending the annual Ox Braai in Bathurst. He leaves on January 6 for the UK, where he will be working as a student assistant at Port Regis Prep School, west of London. I am hoping my gap year in the UK will help me gain some perspective I am not completely sure what I want to study yet, he said. Three other Eastern Cape matriculants also placed among the top 5% of this year s private school graduates. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share