Two KwaZulu-Natal women will appear in the Mthatha Magistrate s Court today to face charges of child abuse and assault. The suspects were arrested by police at an Mthatha eatery on Tuesday while in the company of two minor boys, including one who allegedly told a staff member that he had been forcefully taken from his home in Pietermaritzburg. The boy also told the worker he had been forced to go without any food for the whole week. The youngster, who is believed to be about five years old, had also allegedly been forced to sleep inside a toilet of a hotel at a popular shopping complex. Mthatha police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the two young boys, the other aged about seven, were believed to be from Pietermaritzburg. It seems they were beaten up because they have scars on their heads and backs, he said. Two women aged 35 and 36,believed to be from Kokstad, were arrested and charged with child abuse and assault. He was unable to say what relationship the two women had with the boys, but confirmed they were not their parents. The boys have been taken to a place of safety. The management at the eatery allowed a news team to speak to the staff member who blew the whistle on con condition that her name and that of the business were not revealed. She said two women had entered the premises around9am with the first boy, who was allowed to go and play in the children s section. They left later and, when they returned, were in the company of a third woman and another child. The child was made to sit alone at a table. She said the young boy looked scared and was shaking. I asked them where the child s mother was and they said she had gone to the car, but I got suspicious when she failed to return after 30 minutes. After wards the child was allowed to join the three women at their table. It was then that she noticed that one of the women was stabbing the child with a fork under the table. When she confronted them they got angry and started hurling insults. Video footage allegedly showed one of the women taking the child to the bathroom with a table knife pressed against his neck. The third woman had by then left the table. The staff member said she had eventually taken matters into her own hands and taken the child from them. We gave him food but he could not swallow because his jaw was swollen, she said. It was then that he told me that he was taken from Pietermaritzburg. The police were alerted and the two women arrested . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share