Ex-employee speaks of nightmare conditions, but owner denies claims The suspension of an admin employee at a private education institution in Port Elizabeth has reopened a can of worms, with a string of allegations ranging from serious financial mismanagement to the short- and non-payment of staff levelled at the owner. Lilian Niemann, owner of E-Squared Education Enterprises, allegedly suspended the woman on Thursday simply because she had told a member of the public that the lack of power at the Ed-U-College building in Govan Mbeki Avenue was due to the non-payment of an electricity bill. E-Squared Edu- cation Enterprises comprises Ed-U College (a preprimary, primary, high school and Saturday school institution), Ed-U Options Academy (a FET college) and Ed-U City Campus (a university institution), all based in the city centre. Niemann denied the allegations yesterday, saying they were unfounded and conveyed with malicious intent. She said the charge sheet for the suspended employee did not reflect that she was being censured for her utterances. Your source would probably not have shown you the charge sheet, Niemann said. This clearly refutes this allegation. There is no detail in the charge sheet, specifically not as per your question. The company has frequently made headlines, often over finances. The employee, who expressed shock, hurt and anger at being unfairly suspended just before Christmas, had at first agreed to go on the record but backtracked later, asking not to be named for fear of retribution. The woman is set to face a disciplinary hearing on Wednesday. The reporter interviewed one existing employee and five former employees, all of whom painted a picture of nightmare working conditions. They also asked not to be named for fear of retribution. Most alleged that they were battling to recover money owed to them. The college building was in darkness when visited late last week. However, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality could not confirm last night whether the power had been cut. Niemann s husband, Le Roux Niemann, who is listed as an adviser to the company on its website, said yesterday: There are people with agendas at the college who go to the paper with complaints. Allegations against company include: An exceptionally high staff turnover, with 15 staff members having allegedly left this year alone; Frequent verbal abuse of staff and threats by the owner; Frequent late-, shortand/or non-payment of employees salaries; Dubious financial management and irregularities, including no credit checks for prospective pupils parents and non-issuance of receipts for payments; A three-month penalty when pupils are removed, meaning parents have to pay three months tuition fees after a pupil has left; A no-refund policy, meaning if the school was overpaid in any way, no money would be returned; Frequent non-payment of service providers, including electricity bills, phones, IT and security, among others; and Putting cleaners at risk by sending them to bank with large amounts of cash. The suspended admin employee, who began working at the company in February, alleged that various services had been discontinued regularly over non-payment. She said she had engaged a labour lawyer over her suspension. I really feel hurt and angry about this, the woman said. Staff meetings were a nightmare they never ended without someone in tears. She alleged the company had failed to carry out proper credit checks for the parents of prospective pupils and students, with many ultimately unable to pay the fees. Another former employee said: The standing joke there is that you must wait until you get paid before you resign or you will never see your money. A third former employee alleged: Staff were very badly abused, there were no checks and balances from an accounting point of view, no credit checks were done before pupils were taken in, and receipts were a problem. People were often short-paid, never paid on time and people had to ask for salary slips. A former lecturer, who claims she is still battling to get at least four months salary and other money owed to her, said the high staff turnover resulted in an unstable environment for the students. Another former high-placed staff member who worked at the company for about five years alleged that she was still waiting for six digits in outstanding salary. In response, Niemann refuted nearly all the allegations, with the exception of staff turnover, which she said was totally acceptable . We, unfortunately, lost a number of educators due to the withdrawal by the Department of Education of the Funsa Lushaka bursaries scheme, she said. Teachers are not permitted to teach in private schools while posts exist in government schools. Niemann slated the short-payment allegations as blatantly false and malicious . She said: The organisation must obviously manage its cash flow carefully and is sensitive to situations where scheduled income does not materialise. This typically happens when subsidies due by the Eastern Cape Department of Education are not paid as they should. Niemann said the government had made a part-payment of the subsidies for this year. She said allegations that her company did not pay its bills were malicious and fabricated, and the company had never been involved in a single instance of ex-employees trying to recover monies through the CCMA or Labour Court . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share