Chippa United coach Dan Malesela Picture: Gallo Images Chippa United coach Dan Malesela says there will not be any special treatment for Kaizer Chiefs when the sides meet in a Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium this evening (6pm). The Port Elizabeth side will be out to break their winless streak today against the Soweto giants. Chippa have not won in seven league matches, with their most recent result being a 1-1 draw against Maritzburg United. Malesela said most teams tended to take a defensive approach when playing against the Chilli Boys. I would not be surprised if Chiefs came here and also played a defensive game, he said. We played with Pirates and there was a time where they also played defensively. I hope that the game will be an open one. What will open up the match is if we score first. If we score early the game will open up a little because the opponents will want to attack. Malesela said two things needed to happen today if they wanted to win against Amakhosi. One was taking proper instructions to avoid conceding at the back and the other was not to be shy to take shots at goal. I think one of the biggest things that we really have to do in terms of defending is to [follow] game instructions to the letter, he said. It will help us with this issue of conceding goals. I think we are too concerned about scoring. Sometimes we are shy about taking shots at goal and that is the one thing that is not freeing us. So, maybe if we let go sometimes and try [to take shots], we have seen before that it works for us. The Chilli Boys have been struggling to find the back of the net lately and the coach said the failure to score was not a result of aiming to score fancy or smart goals. No, we are not about that, Malesela said. We are about taking every opportunity that comes for us to get goals. We just don t want to force things, where you can see that you don t have a chance to score. I want people to go with the game, let the game guide them and they just follow. That is what was helping us last season. A win [against Chiefs] will bring confidence into the team. If we are in a position to get confidence from one point then it means three points will boost us very well. Plus we have a break after this game before we play Polokwane City. A win will help us &#8230; knowing that OK fine, now we are waiting for Polokwane . Malesela said playing against these big teams in the league came with pressure, but at the same time the matches brought relief to the coach because the players were self-motivated. The players know there will be a big crowd and that they are being watched by everybody on TV. So my job is a bit lighter on the day. Yes, there is pressure, but it is light when you play the big teams. Yesterday, Chiefs announced the signing of former Chippa player Joseph Molangoane. A 2 -year contract will see the player at Naturena until June 2019. Chiefs have been linked with the 28-year-old winger and playmaker for the best part of a year. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share