ZANOXOLO MBEKI Family demand answers over suspicious circumstances A grieving family are demanding answers over what they claim are suspicious circumstances surrounding the death of a young machine operator who fell from the fifth floor of a state hospital on Christmas Eve. Zanaxolo Mbeki, 29, died after plunging from a small window at Livingstone Hospital at about midnight after his admission for what officials initially said was alcohol intoxication . But it took hospital authorities three days to notify the police and, despite his relatives having been at the hospital with him the day before his fall, Mbeki s body was marked as unknown and stored in the morgue without any paperwork. The matter has now been referred to the health ombudsman. Mbeki s uncle, Port Elizabeth businessman Weza Moss, said the death had left his family including his prominent brother, Save South Africa leader Nceba Moss, and businessman brother-in-law Sipho Pityana angry and with many questions about how their beloved nephew, whose funeral is today, had died. He said that on December 21 Mbeki had suffered two seizures. The first one happened while he was playing Monopoly with his cousins. He never had seizures before. They took him to the doctor. Later that afternoon he had another seizure. He fell in the pool. Luckily his cousins were around him and they could save him. We phoned an ambulance [which] took him to St George s Hospital. Moss said the doctors had said Mbeki would need an MRI scan and further tests. As his medical aid was exhausted for the year, he was sent to Livingstone but while he was at the hospital he suffered another seizure. On December 22, Mbeki was admitted to Ward 5A for more tests but he discharged himself the next day. When I got to him he was very confused, Moss said. We took him back and told him to stay at hospital. We told the nurses that he was confused. The window Mbeki fell from at Livingstone Hospital Around midnight last Saturday Christmas Eve Moss received a call saying Mbeki had fallen from a window on the fifth floor and had been taken to the hospital s casualty unit. When we got there the doctors were busy resuscitating him. He was in a really bad way. The first thing the doctor said when he saw me was: This is not my patient. He was so defensive. I suspect a cover-up. They phoned me at 5am to say that he had died. When we got there, the nurses were crying. Moss said some nurses had told him Mbeki had said he was going out to smoke a cigarette. I never knew him to be a smoker. I asked to see where he fell. There was no blood there. You could see the cotton wool and things that looked like they tried to help him. Moss then asked to see the nurse who was in charge of Mbeki s care. She said he was aggressive and agitated. They called the doctor and asked for a sedative. She said my nephew told her he wanted to go sleep. Mbeki then got up and allegedly broke a small window and jumped through it. Moss said he had also been left traumatised by the search for his nephew s body. I went to the morgue to find him. There was nothing in their register, Moss said. The morgue attendant said the only way to find him would be to look at all the unidentified bodies. He pulled out these mangled and broken bodies. Some still had drips attached to them. He would rip out the drip and throw it in the dustbin. Moss eventually found Mbeki s body. Zakes [Zanaxolo] was a great guy. Very respectful. A lot of fun, Moss said. Moss said they would now ask for a full probe. Health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo, speaking on behalf of Livingstone Hospital, initially said Mbeki had died after he jumped through a window while being treated for alcohol intoxication. But he said this week that the department would now refer the matter to the health ombudsman. Kupelo conveyed the department s condolences to Mbeki s family. DA health spokeswoman Celeste Barker called on Health MEC Pumza Dyantyi to ensure that due process was followed. We call for the full results of the autopsy and drug profiles to be made public. She would also like to know why the correct paperwork had not been completed. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said an inquest docket had been opened. Moss did single out one Livingstone doctor for his caring approach to his nephew and family. As a family we want to express our gratitude to Dr Grant Delport for the way he treated my nephew and the family. He is a wonderful doctor. Moss said Mbeki s funeral would be held at the Henry Fasi Hall in KwaDwesi at 10am today. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share