Cheetahs are sprinting to extinction due to habitat loss and other forms of human impact, according to a study published this week. It called for urgent action to save the world s fasted land animals. Cheetah numbers in Zimbabwe have plunged by more than 85% in 16 years and fewer than 50 individuals survive in Iran, the Zoological Societyof London (ZSL) and the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) warned. The report s authorssaid cheetahs should be listed as endangered instead ofvulnerable on the International Unionfor Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red listof threatened species. The study publishedin the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,estimated that just 7 100 cheetahs remainin the wild, occupying just 9% of the territory they once lived in. The cheetah is sprinting towards the edge of extinction and could soon be lost forever unless urgent, land scape-wide conservation action istaken, ZSL said. There were an estimated 100 000 cheetahs at the beginning of the 20th century, according to previous estimates Given the secretive nature of this elusive cat, it has been difficult to gather hard information on the species, leading to its plight being overlooked, report lead author Sarah Durant said. She is also project leader for the Range wide Conservation Programme for Cheetah and African Wild Dog. Our findings show that the large space requirementsfor cheetah, coupled with the complex range of threats faced by the species in the wild, meant that it is likely to be much more vulnerable to extinction than was previously thought, she said. Cheetahs travel widely in search of prey with some homeranges estimated atup to 3 000km . The study found that 77% of the animal s remaining habitatfalls outside protected areas. The main risks are humans hunting their prey, habitat loss, illegal trafficking and the exotic pet trade, according to the study. Durant hailed recent commitments taken by the international community, including steps to stem the flow oflive cats from the Horn of Africaregion. &nbsp; Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share