The letter, Guards work for tips (December 7), refers. Let me set the record straight for Concerned person and any others out there who may be ill-informed about car guards. It is correct that these guards should be registered with Psira and may otherwise not work. There are, however, all over the metro many street car guards who are not registered and we all know who they are. The metro council is currently embarking on a programme of action to clean up this sector of the security industry. With regard to those who operate at a number of shopping centres across the metro, it is ludicrous simply to assume that the centre management pays the so-called fat cats to have their guards at the centre. The facts of the matter are that service level agreements are entered into between the centre and the car guard company which determine service levels, no payment of any nature is received from the centre and in some instances the centre requires a monthly fee from the car guard company that it may operate on the centre s parking area and according to the service level agreement. These guards do not receive a wage and earn their money from the generosity of the customers in the form of tips. I am not in a position to speak on behalf of all the guard companies. However, the one I am au fait with does have the guards enter into a contract. Just as the hamburger vendor at the beachfront makes a living out of selling burgers, so does the guard make his living looking after vehicles at these shopping centres for which it is hoped he gets rewarded. In both instances mentioned these people are required to pay a standing fee. This is because it is in an organised environment, which has operational costs. Concerned person obviously has no clue of these operational costs such as uniforms. The work done by these registered guards is honest work and a means of income. Next time Concerned person visits one of these organised parking sites, I trust he will reward the person who looks after his vehicle. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share