FAMILY SUPPORT: Victor Mlotshwa in court with his mother for the bail hearing of his alleged attackers Picture: CORNELL TUKIRI Terrified victim pleaded for life, court hears Coffin assault victim Rethabile Victor Mlotshwa spent an hour of hell with his two assailants before being released, terrified and shaken, the Middelburg Magistrate s Court heard yesterday. The two men, Willem Oosthuisen and Theo Martins Jackson, have applied for bail. The prosecution has opposed the application, fearing the men will intimidate witnesses. Investigating officer Detective Constable Dimakatso Bahula testified that Mlotshwa had cried and pleading for his life as the two men threatened to burn him inside the coffin. He said that they beat him all over his body with a knobkierie and forced him into the coffin, Bahula said. They allegedly threatened to put a snake in the coffin and use petrol to burn him. She described how Mlotshwa had struggled to walk home because of his injuries. Bahula also said a second victim, Delton Sithole, who lives in the same community as Mlotshwa, had allegedly been assaulted by the two accused minutes before they ran into Mlotshwa. As she testified and gave reasons why the two accused should not be granted bail, Bahula said another farm owner had opened a case of intimidation on Wednesday at the Blinkpan police station suggesting the incident had shaken the entire community. [The farmer] alleges he has been receiving threatening texts saying that there will be a bloodbath in Blinkpan, Bahula said. He also alleges that another text threatened that his wife would be the next in a coffin. The men s advocate, John Welsh, told Bahula they claimed Mlotshwa had been carrying a bag containing copper wire. Bahula replied: I was not there, I wouldn t know and the victim never told me about that. Welsh said that if released the two accused would not interfere with the case. Last month, the men opted not to apply for bail, citing security concerns. Addressing concerns about their safety, Welsh said Oosthuisen and Jackson would move to a different area. The case will continue today. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share