Silas Nkanunu Court orders Silas Nkanunu to leave Coega house but he says he is owed R15-million South Africa s first black rugby boss, Silas Nkanunu, and his wife have vowed to fight for R15-million in assets they claim are owed to them by the Coega Development Corporation (CDC). This comes after Nkanunu, 83, and his wife, Bukelwa Mengezelezi, 54, were ordered by the Port Elizabeth High Court on Wednesday to vacate two houses in the Coega Development Corporation s Vulindlela Village at Wells Estate before January 13. If they fail to leave, the couple and their family will be evicted on January 20. On the looming eviction, Nkanunu said: No, I don t want to comment. The couple and their family members have been living in the two houses without paying rent since 2003. But Nkanunu and his wife claim they are owed the R15-million after doing work for the CDC through their company, Urest Support Services Coega. They said the company had provided facility management, catering and other services at the village between 2003 and 2009. Nkanunu, along with his wife, who later became a member of Cope, was appointed president of the SA Rugby Football Union in 1998, where he served until 2003. The couple claim that the CDC has not allowed them to remove items, such as furniture and appliances, valued at about R15-million. They claim they had purchased and placed the items in the village s houses to meet the requirements of their contract, and that they were the rightful owners of the goods. This includes the auditing of all moveable assets in the sprawling complex. The village was initially established to accommodate some of the thousands of people involved in the construction of the nearby CDC Industrial Development Zone (IDZ) and the Port of Ngqura. After the projects were completed, the village opened its accommodation to the public and also began offering a bed and breakfast service. But the couple claim that the CDC has been using their assets as part of the accommodation offerings. In an interview, a calm Mengezelezi brushed aside what she termed a hurtful judgment. She said the family was more worried about the fate of assets she believed the CDC owed them. We will be fine with the eviction. We will be out of here by the 20th, that is not the problem. We will not appeal this. It is the issue of the assets that we will not give up on. We will never give up on that, she said. Because of the goods, I always said I will only move from here when a judge tells me to and that has now happened. What is R3 000 per month for each unit for seven years compared to what they owe me? Mengezelezi asked, with reference to their nonpayment of rent. The CDC has made a number of attempts to have the units vacated since the termination of the Urest Support Services Coega deal in 2009. CDC spokesman Dr Ayanda Vilakazi said the corporation welcomed the court s judgment. We are glad that the matter has now been decided . . . and we wish to put it behind us, he said. Regarding the claims that the CDC had not met obligations required for the conclusion of the Coega contract, Vilakazi said: We dispute the assertion with the contempt it deserves, and the court has ruled on this matter. Vilakazi said, however, that the CDC would not comment on the assertions around the R15-million worth of goods, as that could perhaps still be a subject of contention. In his ruling, Judge Clive Plasket said: The CDC . . . has been deprived of their possession and use for a considerable period of time for over a decade. For most of that time, in the CDC s version, [Nkanunu] and [Mengezelezi] did not pay rent. On the version of [Nkanunu and Mengezelezi], they never paid rent at all. The judge said this justified the eviction order. They admit that there is no contractual nexis between them and the CDC in respect of the units. Their reliance on a contract of employment as a basis for their right to occupy, and on the management agreement, are both spurious, Plasket said. He ordered the couple to vacate the houses by January 13, failing which they should be evicted on January 20. Plasket also ordered that the couple pay the CDC s legal costs. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share