NO THANKS: A protester shows his opinion during a demonstration against the introduction of bond notes in Zimbabwe. Picture: AFP Zimbabwean riot police used water cannon yesterday to scatter 20activists protesting about the introduction of bond notes , a new domestic currency they say could touch off uncontrolled money printing and a return to hyper inflation.&#8217; The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe launched the notes on Monday with the goal of easing chronic cash shortages and supplementing the dwindling US dollars in circulation. In Harare, 20 youths from the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) tried to march through the streets waving placards saying No to Bond Mugabe and No to fake money , but were met by a phalanx of riot police. Having failed to stop the launch of the bond notes, which many Zimbabweans fear will erode US dollar savings, some people have tried to undermine the physical integrity of the $2 notes and $1coins. Cellphone videos have circulated online of people rubbing the bright green $2 bond note against a sheet of white paper to leave a green smudge that they say demonstrates the poor quality of the ink and printing. A Reuters experiment with a note also left green smears. Critics in Zimbabwe s small but vibrant social media community have pounced on the smudges as symbolic of the real value of the bollars . They are officially exchange a bleat 1:1 to the US dollar but many people believe they will quickly start to depreciate. We are witnessing one of the biggest scams in history . . . Who just prints paper and determines its value? Claude JrK tweeted. The Reserve Bank has asked the public to report people who deface, disfigure or illegally exchange the bond notes. Although it hopes the bond notes will ease shortages of cash, bank queues lengthened yesterday as workers and government employees sought to withdraw monthly salaries. Taxi driver Adrian Nyakusvipa said the new currency had brought no relief to his painfully slow business We thought there would be a difference after the introduction of bond notes but nothing has changed so far, he said. I have been parked here since morning without ferrying a single customer. Standing in line outside a bank in the capital, Lynely Mabona worried the new currency could be used to wipe out her US dollar bank balance. All I want is to get as much of my US balance as I can out of the bank, she said. Some banks had already run out of US dollars and were giving out only bond notes. Across Harare, a popular saying became the common refrain: We have no choice but to dance to the tune being played. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share