BIG WORRIES: Correctional Services Department national commissioner Zacharia Modise, left, and Deputy Justice Minister Thabang Makwetla address the media Picture: IVOR MARKMAN Prisons bosses critical of staff in lead-up to killing of three in riot Correctional Services top brass admitted yesterday that a failure to search prisoners could have led to a bloody riot at St Albans Prison in which three inmates died and more than 30 people were injured, including 13 prison officers. It has also been established that the prison s most notorious offenders were behind Monday s fatal clash, when inmates turned on warders with home-made weapons. A probe has been launched into whether it was an elaborate escape plot. The Department of Correctional Services has also said staff shortages and overcrowding were some of the contributing factors in the deadly violence, which was over in less than an hour. Some of the injured officials were already back on duty yesterday, but the maximum security B section was still on lockdown. Correctional Services and police a re conducting a joint investigation into exactly what happened. The drama began at about 10am as prisoners were being served breakfast. About 33 prisoners were being moved from their cells to a dining area when they attacked the warders on duty with sharp objects and home-made knives. This led to an all-out fight between prisoners and officials, and backup was called in. One inmate died at the prison and two others died in hospital. Their names will only be released once their next-of-kin have been notified. Thirteen warders, six of them critically injured, were taken to hospital along with at least 19 injured inmates. The inmates who died succumbed to injuries inflicted by the warders as they tried to defend themselves. Correctional Services Deputy Minister Thabang Makwetla said at a media briefing at St Albans yesterday that the department was still investigating the motive for the attack. But it was believed that it was connected to grievances the inmates of cells 22 and 23 had raised with prison officials. Cells 22 and 23 house the most difficult inmates, Makwetla said. From what we have gathered, they had raised concerns about their treatment and some of their privileges being revoked with prison officials. These grievances were dealt with, but the attack still took place. Another possibility that will be investigated is whether the inmates tried to take over the entire cell block as part of an elaborately orchestrated escape attempt. Makwetla said the incident had to be treated as part of a much larger issue. We feel the gangsterism in our prisons plays a large part in this, he said. We are doing everything in our power to combat it, but this problem stretches far beyond just Correctional Services. Correctional Services national commissioner Zacharia Modise said disciplinary action could be taken against prison officials once the internal investigation had been finalised. He said the entire incident might never have happened if not for an oversight on their part. The inmates were not searched when they were being moved from their cells to the dining area, and that is a breach on our side, Modise said. Part of the investigation will be to see who should have searched the inmates and, once that has been established, we will consider possible disciplinary steps. Modise said staff shortages and overcrowded prisons worsened the situation, and the fact that incidents such as this one were becoming a trend was concerning. Certain dates have significance to the different prison gangs and incidents like these are becoming serious traditions for them, he said. Some of the officials involved in the drama said that shortly after the inmates took control of the administration building, they tossed teargas grenades at the officials. When the attack began, the alarm was triggered and emergency procedures initiated, placing the entire facility on lockdown. The Correctional Services emergency response team (EMT), which is trained to deal with prison riots and attempted escapes, managed to contain the situation after they trapped the group of inmates inside the building. Warders armed with batons or dressed in riot gear and armed with shotguns managed to secure the centre. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said: Three murder cases have been opened. We are expecting more cases to be opened by the warders as well as the inmates. Metro Emergency Services dispatched several ambulances to the scene, as well as the medical helicopter. All the injured prisoners were transported to hospital under armed guard. The attack comes in the wake of Operation Vala a Correctional Services clampdown at prisons countrywide to prevent escapes and riots over the December holiday period. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said seven of the prisoners were still in hospital and were being treated at Livingstone, Dora Nginza and Uitenhage Provincial. He said those who remained in hospital had serious head injuries and were in a critical condition. Emergency Medical Services Eastern Cape director A K Munilall said 21 prisoners had been transported to the three hospitals. The injuries were caused by sharp metal as well as blunt objects, he said. Most of the patients had head injuries. He said two of the prisoners had to be resuscitated at the scene and placed on life support. Two prisoners with the most life-threatening injuries were airlifted to Livingstone. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) has, meanwhile, called on Correctional Services to hire more warders to beef up manpower at prisons. Popcru provincial chairman Loyiso Mdingi said the 160 000 inmates countrywide far outnumbered the 26 000 guards. Bhisho legislature safety and liaison portfolio committee chairman Michael Peter said he would write to Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha asking how knives and other sharp objects had entered St Albans. Peter said it had come to his committee s attention that St Albans was allegedly ruled by gangster inmates who enjoy constant communication with the outside world of gangsters . Additional reporting by Estelle Ellis and Malibongwe Dayimani Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share