CHEERS TO FRIENDS: Food Truck fans, back from left, Luvuyo Mjuleni and Kamo Molebeleli and, front, Andrea Smith, Mpilo Blouw and Mel van Rayner enjoyed the Baakens Food Truck Friday last week Picture: LOUISE LIEBENBERG SUNNY SKIES: Food lovers, from left, Wayne Sampson, Erica Sampson, Rita Steyn and Simon Stamper supported the Baakens Food Truck Friday at WERK in the Baakens Valley on December 23 Picture: LOUISE LIEBENBERG DAY OUT: Josiah Ackerman, 3, on the shoulders of his father, Roelof, enjoying Hobie Beach after their trek down from Johannesburg for the festive season break Picture: BAZIL RAUBACH ALL SMILES: Enjoying the music show at the recent Opera House Concert Series are, from left, PoeticSoul Mahambehlala, Zanele Mdodana, Msuthukazi Ndimba and Xabiso Picture: LONDEKA DLAMINI COOL KIDS: Friends, from left, Zikhona Oyies, Asekho Mbambiso and Mpho Moeng helped things run smoothly as ushers the annual Uitenhage Picnic held atWillow Dam last weekend Picture: ISOZAMA PRODUCTIONS DAY OUT: Nombuzo Nyaba, left, joined Theo Klaas and Nolukholo at the annual Uitenhage Picnic held at Willow Dam last weekend Picture: ISOZAMA PRODUCTIONS MULTI-TALENTED: Bongani &#8216;KoraX&#8217; Tulwana performs at the Opera House Concert Series earlier this month Picture: LONDEKA DLAMINI HOW-ZET MATES?: Wray van Schalkwyk cheers on the Proteas during day two of the five-day test between South Africa and Sri Lanka at St George s Park Picture: EUGENE COETZEE Greetings, darlings, my oh my, what a week it has been. I hope everyone has recovered from their Christmas feasts and is planning on getting back in shape for 2017 though there s first New Year s Eve to pass! My weekend started early last week when I went to the SPAR Delight in Summer Sizzling Sessions event. It was a chilled and laid-back event everyone seems to be in a cheerful mood wherever you go nowadays. People have been spending those bonuses with gusto to have a good time, but the January blues are about to hit! As good as the vibes were, the only snag of the evening was Vusi Nova s lip synching. If I wanted to listen to a CD, I could have easily stayed at home. Even on a media ticket it was a letdown and I feel for those who had forked out cash for that. Last Friday afternoon I put on my shortest shorts and headed to the annual Uitenhage Picnic held at Willow Dam, where some of the country s top DJs took us on a trippy journey. Vocalist Portia Monique sure has some pipes on her and the longest legs I think I ve ever seen. Seki Mandaba unfortunately kept to last year s theme, showing up in a white dress revealing some cleavage. The theme was shorts and shades, dear did you not get the memo? Seki still looked good though. Supporting his home town, Theo Klaas also made an appearance and did manage to stick to the theme. Unfortunately, Skinners couldn t stay until the early hours the wind blew me away and it started drizzling a bit after midnight. My hair and rain don t mix, honey. On Sunday, I wore my best clothing and had an epic Christmas lunch with friends. Skinners is on holiday so I didn t do much social shimmying after that, but I will certainly be unleashing myself at today s hugely anticipated Ebubeleni Music Festival. Ciao, darlings. Let s meet again next year! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share