FIRED UP: The first unit of Eskom s Kusile power station in Mpumalanga is now in operation. Picture: WALDO SWIEGERS Utility says it now has excess capacity after Kusile switch-on An assurance that electricity supply was no longer a constraint to the growth of the economy was issued yesterday by Eskom interim group chief executive Matshela Koko. He was speaking after the first unit of the Kusile power station in Mpumalanga was connected to the national grid on Monday night. The parastatal said the connection would add an extra 800 megawatts (MW) to further stabilise the power system to support South Africa s economic growth and the rollout of the electrification programme. The connection of Unit 1 of Kusile comes at a time when Eskom has incrementally been building excess capacityto ensure security of power supply, Eskom said. In addition to Unit 6 of Medupi,which been operating for more than ayear, Eskom s new build programme has also added 1 332 MW from all four units of the Ingula pumped storage scheme as well as the synchronization of Medupi Unit 5. The utility said that excess capacity had enabled it to increase its electrification target to more than 200 000 households by the end of March next year, against a target of 169 722. At the same time Eskom has also increased its electricity exports to neighbouring states many of which have had their hydro schemes adversely affected by the drought. Eskom s electricity sales to Botswana Namibia Zambia and Zimbabwerose 31.6% in the six months to September 30. Koko said: Eskom has focused on lessons learnt from its past history ofnew build projects and this has led tot his early synchronisation. Our build programme is now delivering ahead of our rebaselineschedule our operations have stabilized and as a result we are in a position of surplus capacity. I therefore invite business to invest in the economy because the availability of electricity is no longer a constraint to the growth of the economy. The Kusile power station project isa greenfields coal-fired power plant located near the existing Kendal power station in the Nkangala district of Mpumalanga. It will comprise six units each ratedat an 800 MW installed capacity, fora total capacity of 4800 MW. Construction activities began in 2008 and the power station is plannedto be fully installed by 2022. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share