A man carries an injured man amid rubble of damaged buildings after an airstrike on Aleppo s rebel held al-Fardous district, Syria File picture: Abdalrhman Ismail / Reuters Thousands of people are expected to take to the streets of Cape Town on Thursday to call for an end to the genocide in Aleppo Syria. The demonstration is being facilitated by the Al-Quds Foundation SA and the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC). The chief co-ordinator of the event Yoonus Allie is confident that 10 000 people will join the demonstration. Allie explained that people will gather at the Zeenatul Islam Masjid and walk from Kaizergracht Street to Parliament. We will deliver a memorandum to an official from the Department of International Relations and Cooperation Allie said. According to recent reports by Al Jazeera thousands of people are being evacuated from east Aleppo. Aleppo had been divided between government and rebel areas in the nearly six-year war but a major offensive by the Syrian army and its allies began in mid-November following months of intense air strikes. The offensive forced the opposition fighters out of most of their strongholds within a matter of weeks the report read. The Syrian civil war has been regarded as a major humanitarian crisis. In April United Nations Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura said the Syrian conflict had claimed the lives of about 400 000. The Al-Quds Foundation SA and the MJC have embarked on fundraising events to assist Syrians. The foundation has also called for donations of blankets nappies stationery clothing and toys. The secretary-general of the council Shaykh Isgaak Taliep recently issued a statement condemning the bombing of civilian areas in eastern Aleppo. These atrocious and senseless acts of violence have been done in attempts to regain control of the area from rebel groups which have been under their control since 2012. We further condemn the killing of Syrian civilians by Shi ite militia comprising of foreign nationals from Afghanistan Iran Iraq and Lebanon. We received reports that 180 civilians that were brutally slaughtered in areas they ie the militia have taken control of Taliep said. The MJC appeals to the South African government to use whatever political clout it has internationally to try and assist in bringing this inhuman butchering of innocent Syrians to a halt. TMG Digital/The Times Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share