Cathy and Hugh Picture: Chris Gertsch Port Elizabeth s Gilbert and Sullivan Society is bringing the Christmas spirit to life with its annual carols evening on Wednesday, December 7 from 7pm at the Savoy Theatre. The society invites you to join it for an evening of sing-along carols, special guests and Christmas cheer, with table seating so you can bring along a picnic basket and enjoy the fun with the whole family. The event will include performances by the Maranatha children s home choir, he Happy Echoes choir, the Savoy Singers as well as soloists Liske Potgieter, Zoe Gray and more . It includes G&amp;S president Rose Cowpar s rousing version of The 12 Days of Christmas, South African style &#8211; see below for the lyrics, which Cowpar hopes the audience will singalong to on the night. We encourage all carollers to share the Christmas joy and bring along toys, clothing or food items for the Maranatha Children s Home, said Cowpar. The mission of Maranatha is to create opportunities for children and adults to restore their broken lives and give them hope for the future. Admission is R20 per person R60 for a family (2 adults and 2 children) at the door. Pre-booked tickets are R30 per person and R80 for a family ticket. The Savoy has a fully stocked bar and coffee bar. Inquiries: Rose, 072-906-1977. The Twelve Days of Christmas SA Style On the first day of Christmas, my true love sent to me A lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the second day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the third day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the fourth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the fifth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the seventh day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Seven dolphins swimming, Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the eighth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Eight geckos grinning, Seven dolphins swimming, Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Nine potjies bubbling, Eight geckos grinning, Seven dolphins swimming, Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the tenth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Ten lions leaping, Nine potjies bubbling, Eight geckos grinning, Seven dolphins swimming, Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the eleventh day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Eleven ostrich omelettes, Ten lions leaping, Nine potjies bubbling, Eight geckos grinning, Seven dolphins swimming, Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! On the twelfth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Twelve drummers drumming, Eleven ostrich omelettes, Ten lions leaping, Nine potjies bubbling, Eight geckos grinning, Seven dolphins swimming, Six braais a-sizzling, Five Springbok wins, Four vuvuzelas, Three elephants, Two tall giraffes, And a lourie in a yellow wood tree! Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share