 Criminals took him from me. These are the words of Ntombomzi Qutywa, whose husband Mpumelelo has been in a coma at Algoa Frail Care for the past five years. And now it feels like a crime to me that the government wants to close down the frail care centre, Ntombomzi, 40, said. It has been a long five years for the mother of two from Motherwell fighting to keep herself sane, fighting for the best possible care for her husband, a former machine operator at General Motors, and fighting to keep his memory and legacy alive for their children. On September 9 2011, Mpumelelo, now 41, was left for dead in a stormwater drain near Coega. Later police discovered that people followed him from a place where he met friends for a drink, then beat him up so severely with rocks that he suffered irreversible brain damage. They took his car and drove it so recklessly that police arrested them a few hours later. It was too late for Mpumelelo when the suspects finally told the police where they left him for dead. There was only water, blood and bits of his brain left in his skull, Ntombomzi said. I had just turned 35. At Greenacres Hospital the doctor said surgery would not save him. They showed me the scan. He was too badly brain damaged. The neurosurgeon gave him less than a year to live. After a month in high care, he was moved to Aurora Hospital. It was here where the medical aid gave up hope, Ntombomzi said. They said there was nothing to treat. We got him into frail care. The couple were married in 2003. When he was attacked he was working two jobs, using our car as a taxi at night, because I was busy studying, Ntombomzi said. I know he won t wake up again. He is breathing on his own but there is nothing he can do for himself. They have to turn him every one or two hours. He gets fed through a pipe in his stomach. Sometimes he would open his eyes but I know now that it is only a reflex. When the doctors said that he must go to frail care I first said, train me, I will be able to look after him . They trained me for a day and I realised that I would not be able to work and look after the kids and look after him. In April this year I suffered a breakdown for the first time since they took my Mpumelelo away. It is too hard now for me to visit him. I need to get better for my children. My son is at Grey Primary and my daughter at Victoria Park Primary. My husband was so happy when my son was admitted to the pre-primary school that was the feeder school for Grey. I am using his money to keep his dream alive for his children. I thank God I also have a job that I can keep us going. My boy Hlumi is so into rugby. His dad would have loved that. My daughter Sonwabise misses her father terribly. She has never gone into his room while he has been in a coma. My son would go and tell him what is going on, what everyone is doing. Our government needs to look out for everyone. They can t throw away the people who need frail care. They must keep their promises to everybody. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share