The Proteas arrived at The Port Elizabeth Airport ahead of the boxing day test at St Georges Park. From left, Kagiso Rabada, Ryan van Eyk, Joshua Voigh and Simnikwe Mjemla. Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Ezase-kasi, along with Cricket SA (CSA) and the government, have teamed up to bring you EzaseKasi business Fridays, which will see the Proteas and corporates enjoy a tour of the townships and lunch at Blawa Tshisa-Nyama in New Brighton. The tour aims to bring about financial innovation by introducing the business side of the township, while creating a support and innovative environment for cricket. Ezase-Kasi co-founder Makagiso Mtulu said: This will be a dream come true for the people of the township, for aspiring cricket players to meet their heroes, and for young entrepreneurs who dream of investment in their business. Among those who will be there is Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu. The days proceedings will begin with a short interaction session and signing of autographs by players, to be followed by a picture session with the minister, cricketers and fans. Tickets will also be given away to residents, followed by entertainment by township artists, and ending with lunch. Ezase-Kasi founder Siyanda Mtulu said the unity of business and sport would span the gap in the areas of finance and sports between the less privileged and the city s prime business areas. Sport, in particular, has played a significant role in transforming the country, as in the 1995 and 2007 Rugby World Cups and Afcon [this year]. So to radically transform the economy as well, uniting sports with business plays a pivotal role in boosting the township economy and businesses, Mtulu said. Protea media liaison officer Lerato Malekutu said the team was looking forward to the experience. Boosting township business and the economy plays a big role in the bigger picture for South Africa, and for the Proteas to be involved in that is big. We want people to come and support us, but most importantly to raise awareness around township businesses, Malekutu said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share