After reading almost every day about the education crisis, especially in the Eastern Cape, we decided this was the area where we wanted to try and contribute back to our community. We strongly believe that education is the critical area that can break the poverty cycle. We also had become aware how critical early childhood development was for later success at school and beyond. These are the well-crafted words of Chris Lovemore, the man behind the Heatherbank farm school, near Charlo, that offers early learning and primary education to children from the Gqebera community of Walmer. Chris and Ellen Lovemore are part of a host of individuals who are determined to do the right thing. They are making a difference in the lives of young people and in their bright minds. This they do through not only providing a safe environment for learning, but also through hands-on daily participation in the functioning of the school. The school is neat inside and outside, and the playing grounds are well maintained. Some toilets were built to cater for the threeto six-year-olds. The toilets are maintained in a superb hygienic condition. Amid all the depressing issues emanating from every facet of our lives, the couple is passionate about the power of education for young people. Both coming from definitely well-to-do families and having a cr che of their own (four children), they demonstrate admirable dedication and constructive commitment in affording quality education to people who otherwise would have fallen by the wayside. Chris is the fourth of the five children of David and Enid Lovemore, a well-known business family in the Eastern Cape, who allowed the school to be built on their property as far back as in 1974. In those days the school was administered by successive Bantu education authorities. Education is the area that my family wanted to try and contribute back to our community in, said Chris. It was that example set by his parents decades ago that made him and Ellen revive that passion after the school was closed and left dilapidated. Besides his parents positive influence on him, he was equally inspired by businessman, philanthropist and human rights proponent Andrew Savage to do what you can to change people s lives . Savage was a well-known and highly vocal member of parliament for the PFP (Progressive Federal Party). In the 1960s and 70s he and Lovemore senior were trailblazers in the construction industry, trading under the name Savage and Lovemore. We had a dysfunctional farm school on our property, Heatherbank, off Circular Drive in Charlo, and we decided to focus on the Walmer (Gqebera) community which was closest to our school and which has a critical shortage of schools. We invested in a bus, employed a few Grade R teachers and started the first classes in 2013, taking only children aged four to six, Chris said. We decided that we would focus a lot of effort in building the children s confidence in English. We did not want to compromise mother-tongue learning and we always had Xhosa-speaking teachers available, but it is well known that children who are exposed to a new language between the ages of four and five can quite easily learn that language in addition to their mother tongue. Research also shows that learning an additional language at an early age improves other cognitive abilities. By the end of the first year, the children s language ability had improved dramatically. What was very interesting was how much support we received from the parents and how impressed they were with their children s progress. Each year since 2013, the children have progressed, and today we have six classes from Grade 00 to Grade 3, with 110 pupils attending, Chris said. We employ six permanent teachers and two temps. The school is funded by a variety of sources, from overseas funders to local corporates and individuals. We receive a lot of support from various schools, especially in terms of material to assist us with complying with the prescribed curriculum. In addition, the children attending Heatherbank make a contribution towards their schooling, which includes the provision of transport, school uniform and meals. It has been our experience that this commitment by the parent or guardian is an important part of the overall buy-in necessary to achieve a good result. It is a requirement of the school that parents/guardians attend the parent-teacher meetings at the end of each term, so that they are fully involved in their child s education and progress, he said. It was our aim to integrate the children into local former Model C schools from Grade 4. However, it became apparent that there was no space available. It was decided to continue Heatherbank School to Grade 7, and the Grade 4 and 5 classes have just been completed. By 2018, the school will cater for Grade 00 to Grade 7, and have 200 children and 10 full-time teachers. The funding operation is a continuous challenge, Ellen said. The Lovemores urge members of the community, whether corporates, schools, charity clubs or individuals, who share their passion and belief in education, to consider sponsoring a child or adopting the school as a worthy cause that is making a meaningful impact on our greater community. Observing what the Lovemores are doing, I thought of Prince Mashele s book, The Death of Our Society, and found that the Lovemores efforts fit perfectly the kind of South Africans he describes, that is citizens who do something about the collapse of social values, the death of morality and the ebbing of ethics: There would be no South African society without its individual members, and equally there would be no individual South African without society . Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share