SHARED SORROW: A grieving Ngcweti Ncwane tries to comfort his mother, Ayanda, at the memorial service for his father, gospel singer Sfiso Ncwane Picture: ROGAN WARD President s wife among those offering comfort A few minutes before being whisked away from her husband s memorial service, gospel star Sfiso Ncwane s wife, Ayanda, was overcome with emotion and tried to stem the tears pouring down her face. Throughout the five-hour long service held at a packed Ethekwini Community Church in Durban yesterday, Ayanda had put on a brave face as she grieved the loss of her husband of nine years. Ncwane died on Monday at the age of 37 after being admitted to hospital for kidney failure. The singer is best known for his award-winning track, Kulungile Baba. Ayanda was comforted by their eldest son, Ngcweti, who talked to her and held her hand. At one stage he kissed her as the gospel music his father became famous for reverberated through the hall. Among those who offered words of comfort to the bereaved widow was President Jacob Zuma s wife, Tobeka Madiba-Zuma, who also used the occasion to berate South Africa s unpatriotic media. Madiba-Zuma accused the media of being hostile to her husband, despite his working hard. To comfort Ayanda, she quoted a verse: There is no widow in God. If you re a God-fearing woman, the solution to your problems is the distance between your knees and the floor. You must fix your eyes to the Cross. Madiba-Zuma told mourners she had been deeply touched by the tribute Ngcweti paid his father on Instagram, which she said showed their relationship. Ngcweti wrote: To my father thank you for everything you have done for the whole family. I know you didn t mean to leave us. I hope you rest in peace and I promise I will follow in your footsteps. There will never be another loving father like you. Also speaking during the service, Ncwane s uncle, Mduduzi Ncwane, said his nephew had been a pillar of strength to all around him, always giving hope and support. The family was struggling to cope with his death, Mduduzi said, but we have to try to accept the will of God . Ncwane will be buried at the Heroes Acre Cemetery in Chesterville after a funeral service at Durban s Moses Mabhida Stadium tomorrow. His funeral will be broadcast live on several TV and radio stations. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share