Kaveen Jimmy and his sister Renisha &#8211; whose brother Reshall died in a Ford Kuga when it caught alight last December &#8211; want closure and an apology from the car manufacturer on December 2, 2016 Picture: Alon Skuy Family claims brother died in Ford Kuga after electrical fault; company denies it Ford is facing a backlash from drivers of its family SUV, the Kuga, after reports of sudden fires in the vehicle which have left at least one South African dead. Kaveen Jimmy, whose brother, Reshall, burnt to death when his 2014 Ford Kuga caught alight, wants the vehicle-manufacturing giant to take responsibility and recall that specific model. Jimmy has the support of dozens of South African Kuga owners who say their vehicles have also caught alight. The owners have launched an awareness campaign on Facebook, where they have posted stories about how their vehicles suddenly combusted. The campaign has gone viral, with more than two million page views. But Ford said it was not considering a recall in South Africa. We take the safety of our customers very seriously, the company said. While we continually evaluate our processes for potential improvements, our decisions are driven by the data available. When the data indicate a safety recall is needed, we move quickly on behalf of our customers, the company said. Reshall Jimmy burnt to death in his Kuga last year in December, while on holiday in the Wilderness. Two forensic reports said that, based on an inspection of the vehicle in January, the fire had been caused by an electrical fault behind the dashboard on the passenger side of the vehicle. One report, by the police forensic laboratory, said natural fire and negligence could be excluded as causes. An electrical fault is the cause of the fire, the police report said. The second report was compiled by Fire Wise Consultants on behalf of Jimmy s insurance company. It said: It has been confirmed and accepted by all parties during the primary brief that the vehicle in question was a 2014 model and that that year s model did not form part of the vehicles that were recalled by Ford Motor Company. Ford recalled 150 000 of its popular Escape models in the US and China, citing risk of engine fire. The Escape is known as the Kuga in South Africa and Europe. The recall did not apply to South Africa. Jimmy s family believe the reports point to a manufacturing fault and wants answers from Ford. Kaveen Jimmy said another two Kugas had caught alight and he knew of 17 other Kuga fires in South Africa. People need to be aware that they are sitting on a ticking time bomb, he said. Jimmy family lawyer Rod Montano said he had met Ford s legal representative in October to reach a settlement in respect of Reshall s death. The meeting went nowhere. Instead, their lawyer said he was only meeting me to get a third sight of the vehicle. Montano questioned the need for a third inspection of the vehicle a year after the fire. The third inspection is scheduled for today. Ford denies reopening the investigation by wanting to inspect the car this week. We are working with the authorities on the investigation of the fire. Until that investigation is complete, we do not have further information, Ford said. Several other motorists have told how their Kuga s suddenly caught fire. Johannesburg resident Rojene Roman said her 2013 Kuga caught alight while she was driving home in December last year. A motorist drove next to me screaming that my car was on fire. I managed to jump out. Within minutes the entire car was ablaze. She said Ford had taken no responsibility. All Ford did was say thanks for informing them of the thermal incident . Cape Town resident Shamiegha Uygunh said her 2014 Kuga caught alight just after she had dropped off her son at school. A motorist saw smoke coming from the car. He helped her and her daughter to safety. She said: I insisted on a forensic investigation. I was told it was ready but when I requested it I was told it would cost me R30 000 for a copy. From day one, they [Ford] have tried to escape responsibility. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share