PJ Powers pictured here at Divas in Spring in Jenni Gault jewellery is working with the Port Elizabeth designer on a new Swarovski crystal range Picture: Mark West South African pop-rock superstar PJ Thandeka Powers will be in Port Elizabeth on Saturday, December 10, to perform at a jewellery launch with a charity twist presented by Bay designer Jenni Gault. Fairview Racecourse is the venue to showcase Jenni Gault International Jewellery Design s new range over a tapas style lunch. Shining Light will also introduce four students Gault is mentoring in conjunction with Khulisa Social Solutions. The designer has recruited and is training the quartet on the jewellery design and their work also will be on sale at the concert. Powers often visits Nelson Mandela Bay and sang at the Divas In Spring concert held at Victoria Park alongside other national treasures like Lira and Judith Sephuma. Powers wore jewellery by Jenni Gault for her performance and asked the Port Elizabeth designer to create a piece for her. Gault then developed a personalised range of bracelets for the singer, which Powers took with her when she travelled overseas in October, and sold. This new range will also be on show next weekend. Famous since the 1980s when her group Hotline was the largest selling band in South Africa, Powers has had a long solo career as well. At the show next Saturday she will sing excerpts from her latest album Destiny. Her Afropop style and fluency is isiXhosa give Powers a cross-cultural appeal although in the early days of her career she was banned by the apartheid government. She has sung with many of the greats: Miriam Makeba, Hugh Masekela, Eric Clapton, Joan Armitrading and Harry Belafonte. However perhaps the greatest highlight was receiving a letter from Nelson Mandela when he was in Victor Verster prison, as it is still one of her most treasured possessions. Tickets for the concert, which is a seated event, cost R250. This includes a Swarovski gift from Jenni Gault International Jewellery Design. Shining Light starts at 12 noon. Inquiries: 083-379-9797, admin@jennigault.com. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share