A spanner appears to have been thrown in the works regarding a potential partnership deal between Pro Rugby North America and the cash strapped EP Rugby Union. After several requests for a statement on the mooted partnership, SA Rugby spokesman Andy Colquhoun finally broke his union s silence on the potential deal. News of the American Alliance first broke on November 4 when it emerged that Pro Rugby North America chief executive Douglas Schoninger had written a letter to SA Rugby chief executive Jurie Roux expressing his interest in EP Rugby. That was followed by an informal meeting between SA Rugby president Mark Alexander and Schoninger in London. SA Rugby said yesterday: Reports of an imminent investment in the Kings are grossly exaggerated and entirely misleading. The EPRU is currently in liquidation and only the liquidator can speak on its behalf no other party has those rights. In relation to the Southern Kings and an American investment, the USA Rugby Union gave a clear indication that they do not support this process. SA Rugby has referred all such approaches back to USA Rugby and the liquidator. When told of the statement, Schoninger would not comment. Earlier, he had applauded SA Rugby for increasing the private ownership stake in South African Super Rugby franchises to 74%. Groundbreaking decisions on private ownership, designed to radically modernise South African professional rugby, were taken by the sport s bosses in Cape Town last week. The decision to increase private ownership had also appeared to boost plans for a proposed partnership between the EP Rugby Union and Pro Rugby North America. I applaud Mark Alexander and his team in taking the bold step of allowing majority private ownership of the South Africa Super Rugby clubs, Schoninger said hours before yesterday s statement by SA Rugby about a potential deal. This step will allow for the investment that is needed to stabilise and grow the game in South Africa. I look forward to working with SA Rugby and Mandela Bay/PE in determining if Pro Rugby can be part of the solution. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share