HIGH ALERT: Police officers patrol the Christmas market in Dortmund, Germany, yesterday after the Berlin attack. Picture: EPA Real perpetrator still on the run after cops release Pakistani asylum-seeker German authorities believed a deadly rampage by a truck driver who ploughed into a Berlin Christmas market on Monday was a terrorist attack committed by an asylum seeker, Chancellor Angela Merkel said yesterday. However, in a dramatic twist, police said that the man could not be linked to the attack and that the real perpetrator was still on the run. Berlin police tweeted that they were particularly alert because of the suspect s denial of any involvement. Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere said the man who had been arrested was a Pakistani who had arrived in Germany on December 31 last year, seeking asylum. His has since been released. However, we have no doubt that this terrible event was an attack , De Maiziere said. Twelve people were killed and almost 50 injured when the truck tore through the crowd on Monday evening, smashing wooden stalls and crushing victims, in scenes reminiscent of July s deadly attack in the French Riviera city of Nice. The mangled truck came to a rest with its windscreen smashed, a trail of destruction, screaming victims I know it will be especially hard for us to take if it is confirmed that the person who committed this attack sought protection and asylum in Germany, Merkel said. Australian Trisha O Neill recalled the horror of this huge black truck speeding through the markets crushing so many people , with blood and bodies everywhere. After a loud crash and screams, we saw the articulated vehicle going through people and the stalls, just pulling everything down. Then everything went dark . Police detained the man believed to have deliberately driven the truck, which was loaded with steel beams, for 80m into the popular tourist spot near the capital s Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church. Newspapers reported that after the driver left the truck, a man followed him on foot and used his cellphone to stay in touch with police, who arrested the man about 2km away near Berlin s Victory Column. A 37-year-old Polish man, thought to have been the truck s registered driver, was found shot dead on the passenger seat. German flags flew at half-mast yesterday and mourners placed flowers and candles at the site. The government declared that Christmas markets and other big events should continue. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share