READY TO LEAD: Moregrove Primary School principal Allyson Brenner at school Picture: FREDLIN ADRIAAN Walking the corridors of the same building for more than 35 years, Allyson Brenner has been appointed principal of Moregrove Primary School in Port Elizabeth. Brenner, 56, who started out at the school as a Grade 7 pupil and matriculated at Alexander Road High School in 1977, spent her first years as a teacher at the Cotswold school. Born in England, Brenner started her first appointment on the job at the age of 20 in 1981, but she was only considered a permanent employee by the Department of Education once she applied for South African citizenship two years later. The first year of teaching was exhausting because often you would have 10 lessons the next day which you would have to prepare for, so you kind of just got on with it, she said. But the first few years were good times. Through the years, the Grade 2 teacher progressed to grade head, head of department foundation phase, deputy principal and then taking on the role as chief disciplinarian principal from the beginning of the month. After investing 36 years of my life into this school I am in no rush to leave, Brenner said. They say a ribbon s length is about 70cm and I have been here just a little over the halfway mark and I would love to retire from this school at the age of 65. When I started here as a Grade 2 teacher there were about 10 of us who started around the same time and now we are losing a few people due to retirement. As sad as that is, I guess it is something that has to happen, she said. Brenner said the schools s biggest asset was the staff who had become much like a family. Happy that her career had come full circle, it was not one of her goals when she first set out in the profession. Through time your needs change, she said. I started off being happy with being a teacher and then other opportunities arise, and you think why not and I applied and so it went through the years until now. Brenner attributed her success to being a hard worker with a passion for the job. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share