TRAGIC SCENE: Rescue workers attend to one of many accidents that have occurred on Eastern Cape roads since the start of the holidays Officials still hope figure will be lower than last year The death toll on Eastern Cape roads has climbed to 79, with at least 24 people killed over the Christmas weekend. The deaths occurred in 187 crashes between December 1 and Monday. Between December 1 last year and January 5, 278 people died on Eastern Cape roads. Eastern Cape provincial traffic deputy director Charles Bramwell said: The decrease can be attributed to higher visible patrols [and] zero-tolerance law enforcement prosecutions, specifically on moving violations. We have closely studied our statistics for December last year and are striving to bring about a reduction of 50%. This month alone, 224 drunk drivers were arrested, 71 213 vehicles inspected, 46 stray animals impounded, 8 184 summonses issued to motorists and 170 vehicles confiscated for being unroadworthy, Bramwell said. But while the road accident death toll in the province has decreased when compared to the same period last year, staff at Eastern Cape hospitals have been kept busy with 208 recorded cases of trauma from eight regions. Of the 208 people that were treated at the eight regions, Sarah Baartman recorded the highest number with 143, folThe lowed by the Nelson Mandela Bay metro with 40 cases. In the latest crash, two people were killed at 5am yesterday when a vehicle they were travelling in on the N2 outside Qumbu overturned. Two people were also killed in a head-on collision on the R330 between Humansdorp and St Francis Bay on Monday afternoon. Bramwell said a Kia SUV and a Hyundai had collided. two women in the Kia died while two passengers in the Hyundai were taken to hospital. On Saturday, two people were killed when a Toyota minibus travelling from Knysna to Port Elizabeth on the N2 overturned near the Van Stadens Bridge at 3am. Police spokesman Sergeant Majola Nkohli said 15 others were injured in the crash. Nkohli said it was believed a burst tyre led to the crash. In a crash on Friday, two women died on the N2 between Grahamstown and Peddie when the driver lost control after a tyre burst. Two women passengers died instantly while the driver and another passenger were taken to hospital in a serious condition, Bramwell said. While the provincial death toll is 79, Transport Minister Dipuo Peters announced at the weekend that more than 845 people countrywide had lost their lives on the roads since December 1. She attributed the statistics mainly to human error and drunk driving. Meanwhile, provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said staff at forensic units where postmortems are performed had been under pressure since the start of the festive season. Motor vehicle accidents are costing the state a lot of money, and also those who survive gunshot wounds require specific treatment, he said. All trauma cases are costing the state. These are unnecessary occurrences [gunshot, stabbing and road accident deaths] within society. If society can change and stop being brutal to one another [a lot can change], he said. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share