Picture: EUGENE COETZEE When I observe the conduct of people engaging in protest action, I wonder whether we could change what I call a rampage culture of protest to a more peaceful protest culture where protesters engage in constructive dialogue with those they perceive as having failed them, be it in governance or whatever. We have seen the huge losses the country has suffered from schools, university buildings, libraries, clinics, to name some, that have been destroyed in the name of protest action. These actions cause more suffering in the communities affected by them children deprived of schooling, sick people not being attended to, and so it goes on. It seems so senseless. Someone has to pay for this damage, and currently it is the taxpayer. The perpetrators seem to be angry, unemployed, disadvantaged citizens who do not pay taxes, which means they are not paying for what they have destroyed. The problem is that those guilty of the destruction suffer no consequences, which means that they have no qualms about it. As Tom Eaton wrote recently, in countries where there are no consequences (for wrongdoing), those countries become countries of no consequence. We seem to be moving in that direction. My question is why we cannot become a more civil society where we live by the norms of propriety, which include honesty, respect for everyone, reliability, reasonableness, trust and good manners. Civil society is premised on the notion of the common good for all. In an ideal situation, the civil society has a collective self-consciousness with respect to important moral and ethical values, which all members share and strive to abide by at all times. The behaviour that is expected from members of the civil society is, as you would guess, called civility. Civility means behaving with humility, seeing other people as fellow citizens and considering the differences in opinion of others as our equals. It is about disagreeing without disrespect, seeking common ground as a starting point for constructive dialogue and listening past your own preconceptions. In the protests in this country we see no civility at all, and that needs to change if we hope to have a prosperous future. In the #FeesMustFall campaign, we observed very little civility in the conduct of those at the forefront of it. They were disrespectful, unreasonable, arrogant, broke the law and did not engage in constructive dialogue. If the so-called leaders of the future believe this is the way to behave, South Africa is doomed. It is at this point that shouts of outrage will emanate that the protesters behaviour was justified and all sorts of reasons will be proffered and, while most are historical and current facts, not one is justified if viewed within the meaning of civility. I will be accused of not understanding the protesters and that my arguments reinforce perceptions of sectarian (white) privilege. Sadly, that is the problem everything is seen in terms of black and white, and not the rainbow. Instead of focusing on the bigger picture, we judge one another within our narrow frameworks and write those off who we regard as not sharing our views. We regret their lack of understanding and insight and pat ourselves on the back for having better understanding and insight than they have. Related Share on Facebook Share Share on Twitter Tweet Share on Google Plus Share